Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification



 Secret Of Sankhya:
Acme Of Scientific
    Unification

                         By


                    G. Srinivasan



                Transliterated From



The Sankhya K arika
                     In Sanskrit



                         By


                  Ishwara Krishna
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``

                                 Contents Part I

Contents Part I ................................................................ 2
Table of Figures. ............................................................. 3
Abstract ........................................................................... 6
Introduction .................................................................. 40
Axiomatic Concepts. ..................................................... 65
Axiomatic Definitions. .................................................. 86
Axiomatic Derivations. ............................................... 112
Axiomatic Basis for Physics: Pho State. ..................... 127
Axiomatic Universe is Eternally Dynamic ................. 163
Axiomatic Law as Foundation for Spirituality. .......... 191
Axiomatic Solution to the Human Enigma: God ...... 197
Axiomatic Extrapolation of Future Developments. .. 218




2
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                        Table of Figures.
Fig: Simultaneous activity.                                 67

Fig: Merging counts initiate ‘gravitation’                  68

Fig: Self Similar volumetric state                          71

Fig: Self Similar Ratio.                                    71

Fig. Sequential count                                       86

Fig: Simultaneous counts                                    86

Fig: The combination well                                   89

Fig: Sequential and simultaneous ratios.                    89

Fig: Density of simultaneous interactive states.            92

Fig: High stress density potential sink                     93

Fig: The Resonant Thermal Control                           98

Fig: Interactive Thermal Gradient.                          99

Fig: Thermal Well at critical thermal potential Tk.         100

Fig: Moolaprakrithi My concept                              106

Fig: Stress Transmigration principle. (Light velocity)      109

Fig: Perpetual Harmonic Oscillatory Tunnel                  116

Fig: Electron Formation Boundary.                           122

Fig: The nuclear core and its surface in oscillation.       123

Fig: The Triad.                                             124


                                                             3
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
    Fig: Density Change from Compressive to Expansive         130

    Fig: Transmigration                                         133

    Fig: The Pho balancing point                                133

    Fig: Compton wavelength marks coherent boundary.            137

    Fig: Pho state before a photon was radiated.                144

    Fig: Accelerative impact breaks coherent symmetry.          145

    Fig: An accelerated vortex or Photon.                       145

    Fig: Point when Redshift changes to Blueshift.              154

    Fig: Merging counts.                                        155

    Fig: Volumetric Rate of change at the basic level.          157

    Fig: Red shift factor in space.                             159

    Fig: Table of Resonant Harmonic Redshifts.                  159

    Fig: Table of range of Redshifts.                           161

    Fig: Method of Proof.                                       163

    Fig: Universal Interactive Control Constants                167

    Fig: Decay and Absorption of stress in Space                169

    Fig: Table of Oscillatory rates at nuclear boundary.        175

    Fig: The stress intensity in nodal states.                  176

    Fig: Spectral characteristics of Gravitation.               184

    Fig: Proof of Self similarity, scale invariance and symmetry 186


4
Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``




                                                      5
              Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``

                             Overview of Axiomatic Sankhya.
Sankhya created by Maharishi Kapilla in 32000 years ago, forms the core of the Bhagavadgita,
embedded in the Mahabharata. It is the only unified field theory in existence that offers a
complete scientific and mathematical solution to every aspect of reality, manifest or unmanifest, in
space comprising substantial components. The 68 Sanskrit axiomatic theorems or Sutras in
Sankhya are transliterated, along with its mathematical derivations in part 2, for the first time,
as all earlier translators could not decipher its scientific content based on combinatorial
mathematics. While Part 2 contains the original Sutras in Sanskrit, the axiomatic derivation is
shown first as it is an extraordinary scientific creation of unequivocal accuracy and precision that
has the greatest relevance to science today , especially in view of the numerous anomalies in Physics
ad Cosmology that has not been solved despite great advances in measurement technology.
             A correct theory should be simple, logically & numerically consistent and be in
consonance with reality. It should be based on an axiomatic foundation, so that the principle of
causality is not violated. The permanent foundation for a unified theory that defines all
phenomena, at every point in space and time, must be a non-dimensional and scale-
invariant formulation, if it is to fulfil the criteria of universality. In a unification paradigm, it is
necessary to restrict the controlling parameter to a single variable, if it is to be effective
mathematically. From an intellectual, logical and observational standpoint time or the interval
between activities is the only parameter that can fill the role of a controlling parameter. The
definition for the real and substantial nature of the substratum on which phenomena is based
should evolve from within the theory as a consequence of its axiomatic foundation which
consequently compels the inclusion of dynamic interactive states.
             The intellectual dichotomy posed by the ordering of polarised concepts such as
“maximum and minimum”, “static and dynamic”, “start and finish”, “left and right
handedness”, “simultaneous and sequential”, etc. should be resolved through an axiomatic
unification paradigm, again arising from within the theory. Simplification of logic, rigor of
analysis and elimination of conundrums must form a vital part of the derivational process to
establish integrity of theoretical conclusions. Since Universal phenomena existed long before the
advent of human life, a correct theory must not depend on logic structured through intellectual
analysis that is contrary to the observed characteristics of natural phenomena. A classical
example of a conundrum in Physics and Cosmology is the assumption that space is a vacuum,
void or devoid of substantiality because of the failure of experiments to detect the presumed
characteristics of space. The assumption that is a void or vacuum or without identifiable
characteristics has been the greatest error in logic for axiomatically it is impossible to accept the
foundation of the most realistic Universe is a void. But axiomatically there is compelling logic to
identify a real foundation of elemental components or matter for it then leads to quantum with
mathematical rigor from the start. A real component or elemental matter must be volumetric and
its dimensional property of length underlines and defines the unit value. Since there can be no
smaller unit in an elementary field of matter the volume also must be unit cubed. The next
incremental dimension must be two units with a cubic form changed to one side being longer than
the other two. Hence the cubic volume axiomatically must be 2cubed or 8 volumes. It is
impossible to create cubic volumes of 2 to 7 units for its sides would increase fractionally as the
cube root 2 etc to 7 and a fractional dimension is axiomatically forbidden in an elemental field.
Therefore a cubic volume of one can only increase to on volume containing 7 additional volumes to
equal 2 cubed = 8 elemental volumes. The quantum state of one containing 7 unit volumes is a

6
              Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
natural and axiomatic consequence of elementarity. The elemental field of air has a spectrum of
seven vibratory states and water has a spectrum of 7 PH levels in both incremental and
decreasing levels of 14. Hence quantisation is an axiomatic process in a real but elemental field of
matter. Similarly the elementary cyclic state of time is quantised perfectly y six intervals where the
radius and the boundary have equal displacements from the centre and is scale invariant. The Pi
value is the asymptotic sum of infinite sequential intervals but is only 6.28, which is derived later
axiomatically.

The most important aspect to understand is that the expansion from 1 to 8 forms the first
quantum and then that field of 8 becomes a stable medium everywhere due to attaining perfect
balance. It then becomes an elemental field again at a higher density and all the laws of the
fundamental quantum field apply again in exactly the same way. It means that the law of
manifestation ONLY repeats again and again at every balanced state to create balanced fields
with the hidden potential of 7 states.

                Further, since the theoretical derivation forms the foundation for pursuing human
activities efficiently, it must be amenable to observation and practical verification, for only then its
utility would be confirmed intellectually. The process of verification through observation depends
on a relative change which restricts its means to a dynamic parameter such as time. The proof for
the completeness of a theory should rest on the unequivocal corroboration of its theoretical
derivations, with every type of observational experience which naturally forms an element of
physical reality.
                As a specific case, the spectrum of phenomena observed in paranormal and spiritual
domains have been widely reported through verified firsthand accounts, yet there is no place for it
in current science, even as a hypothesis. Lastly, since the theory is based on axioms, its proof must
be generated from within as a part of its derivational process and should not depend on arbitrary
or external observational parameters. A rigorous test for the correctness of a unification paradigm
lies in its ability to derive numerical solutions unambiguously, without dependence on constants
that are structured through tenuous logic. The removal of uncertainty as a factor and
establishment of the accuracy and correctness of a unification paradigm compulsorily leads to the
concept of predestination as an operating parameter in reality.
               Sankhya forms the core of the Bhagavadgita, embedded in the Mahabharata. Based
on the foregoing principle, its axiom based foundation, bound by rigorous logic, using
combinatorial mathematics, inexorably leads to an austere formulation which is the epitome of
intellectual elegance. It is the only unified field theory in existence that offers a complete scientific
and mathematical solution to every aspect of reality, manifest or unmanifest, in space comprising
substantial components. The 68 Sanskrit axiomatic theorems or sutras in Sankhya are
transliterated, along with its mathematical derivations in part 2, for the first time, as all earlier
translators could not decipher its scientific content based on combinatorial mathematics.
               While it may seem impossible to present a complete theory of manifestation of all
forms of universal phenomena in just 68 theorems the ingenious method of presentation justifies
its correctness. In the very first sutra or theorem a method of elliptical negation gives the clue to
deriving factorial 68 numbers of solutions combinatorially from as many theorems. The logical
derivational process is presented below but the comprehensive mathematical proof is given in
appropriate chapters which gives simple explanations with mathematical proof for the numerous
unexplainable anomalies in Physics and Cosmology. For instance the well known EPR
paradox, Hubble’s expanding Universe hypothesis or the unidentifiable spectrum of dark matter


                                                                                                       7
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
/energy phenomena are shown to be the product of misunderstanding the real structure of space.
Al of these anomalies just proves one point that there is an undetectable medium.
              Space as a large volumetric entity can be defined and described logically and simply
but the introduction of dynamism that has been observed for eons needs a more rigorous approach.
In Sankhya, counting interactive events between adjacent components, comprising the continuum
of space, provides the means but it depends on a ratio of change that involves an interval, defined
in Physics as ‘time’. Any length compared to some length is just a numerical ratio but if one of
them moves the same ratio becomes a time parameter defining a dynamic state. Additionally, any
cycle of interaction between any two objects has three complementary phases, in which there is a
‘compressive collision’, a ‘rebounding reversal’ and an ‘expansive separation’. All these three
modes too are governed by the cyclic interval of time but again defined in three complementary
phases, as a ‘simultaneous instant of collision’, a ‘resonant period of reversal’ and a ‘sequential
interval of separation’, respectively. Colliding interaction creates compressive stresses at the point
of impact. In the resonant interval, compressive stress reverses to become an expansive one. The
sequential expansive stage initiates the transmigration of interactive stresses that expand beyond
its boundary, to other components forming the continuum of space. The three states of the
interaction within a single cycle occur as a simultaneous event. However, when the interaction
expands to form the sequential transmigrating state, each cycle consists of a repetition of the
simultaneous state. The equality of the algebraic sum of the interactive or alternating interval
leads to a perpetual harmonic oscillatory state (PHO) that sustains eternal dynamism and is the
hallmark of the unification paradigm in Sankhya. The controversial and oft debated phenomenon
of zero point energy is given an axiomatic mathematical foundation through the PHO derivation.
The Perpetual Harmonic Oscillatory state is defined in Sanskrit as the Tri-Guna interactive
states that are the cause of all phenomena in the Universe and forms the principle and singular
theme in Sankhya. The axiomatic derivation of the eternally dynamic state through
combinatorial mathematics is unique to Sankhya and it raises it to the acme of unification of
phenomena in science.
              As a preview of a PHO state a physical example will explain how such a state can
exist perpetually. An archer’s bow is the iconic model of the PHO state. The shaft of the bow is
a flat long strip made up of a rigid material like wood or metal. When it is bent the outer curve
stretches while the inner surface compresses at the same time and will spring back to its normally
straight position of the bending pressure is removed. If a string is attached to both the ends when
bent, it would resonate or vibrate as it is stretched and relaxed by the twin pressure form of stress
of compression and expansion of the inner and outer layer of the bent strip. Depending on the
rigidity of the strip and the elasticity of the string it would reach a balanced resonant state and
remain in that state forever.
              An amplifier with a microphone attached to the bow at its mid stable position would
reproduce the resonant frequency at an audible level. Unless the strip or string changes its state
the sound would be produced perpetually and has been tested successfully. The key characteristics
that make it possible is the rigidity of the strip where the compressive and expansive state is
created simultaneously due to its degree of rigidity and the ability of the string to maintain the
same tension as a creating a vibrating rate that is constant.
              Theoretically, an instant would be defined in Physics as an infinitesimally small
interval of time approaching zero. However in reality the instant of time must have a relative but
discrete numerical value. The concept of the instant of collision can be understood simply, as the
interval of time a solid object takes to transfer an impact from one side to its opposite one. Stating
it differently, if a solid object is pushed from one side, the opposite side would seem to move at the
same moment, depending on its rigidity. If the rigidity or density of the solid object is at its

8
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
maximum, then that interval of time would be the minimum, forming an instant, because there
would be minimal distortion. If two such similar objects collide, that interaction would take place
within the same interval of time or simultaneously as an instant. There would neither be an
interval smaller than that instant nor any distortion that could increase it. Consequently, the
action of both objects within the instant must be defined as a simultaneous one. Similarly both
ends of a rigid rod act simultaneously for if one end is pushed the other end also moves at the
same instant despite the rods length. Hence simultaneous action can occur at two locations
separated by the length of the rigid rod. Therefore simultaneous activity is synonymous with mass,
density, rigidity, coherence and similar descriptions.
              Taking the example of a moving train, consider the fixed wagon length L as the rigid
rod in which both its ends act ‘simultaneously in time’, while the length of the gap G between two
wagons acts as the ‘sequential or variable aspect of time’ that can change and hence not rigid. At
constant train velocity let time taken by wagon be Lt while time taken by gap be Gt and if the
gap G does not change then ratio of time at every instant as Lt/Gt will be constant at all train
velocities. But the real length between two wagons is L+G and at constant train velocity, total
time equals Lt + Gt. When the train velocity changes L being rigid Lt will change instantly
whereas the gap G being variable the Lt /Gt ratio will change instantly and similarly Lt + Gt
as the interval between two wagons too will change instantly. An increase in Lt will require Gt to
increase to keep ratio constant whereas Gt must decrease to keep interval constant. Depending on
the rate of time change a series of opposing changes must take place to maintain balance. The
axiomatic algorithm that resolves the above problem of maintaining eternal balance between
simultaneous and sequential oscillatory states is derived below as 1/x =1+x. It sets rigid, dense,
coherent states to one as a constant of simultaneity.

              Simultaneous interactions between many objects get merged into a single count, as it
occurs within the ‘instant cycle’. The simultaneous collision in an interaction is countable. Hence
counting interactions are real events whereas the interval in terms of time is a relative comparison.
Hence counting as a process of evaluating phenomena is certain and accurate. As an example if
the difference between initial time as To and final one as Tf as Tf-To = 0 the ratio To/Tf =1 is
a statement that implies that the comparison is at the same instant and is confirmed by the
interval Tf-To = 0. Hence the test for simultaneity of events is confirmed by two modes as the
zero time interval or the ratio of the two being 1. The ratio of infinity/infinity also equals 1
conceptually; thereby allowing the observer to create unlimited variable ratios provided the sum is
one. Whereas, time is a relative parameter and therefore, it is not a real but subjective process.
There is a similar concept in Physics where waves of different frequencies superposition to decrease
the interval of time separating two adjacent ones and when that interval becomes zero the concept
of waves, changes to a continuum. In the case of a quantum counting in terms of an arbitrary
interval as a second is relatively accurate but is not a definitive or certain process because there is
no way of detecting the count as a single or a merged unit.
              However, experience shows that sequential interactive events can be counted, because
an interval of time separates two adjacent activities, but not those that occur simultaneously or
within an instant. Ten claps can be counted as such if it occurs one after another but if all ten
occur at the same instant it can be counted as only one. It causes an anomaly of nine vanishing
counts when interactions synchronise to act simultaneously. Though the nine merged counts are not
countable, it increases its intensity as the hidden clap-count density, within that single clap.
Therefore, the number of interactions that take place simultaneously, within the time-interval of
an instant, indicates its count density per ‘instant of time-interval’, whereas sequential ones
indicate the number of such instants existing between interactions.

                                                                                                     9
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
              Similarly, the moment of changeover from simultaneous to sequential interactive
interval covers the ‘resonant period of reversal’, counted as numbers of such instants. Hence all
phases of interactive states can be counted in terms of that instant but not those that occur
simultaneously within the instant. There is no detectable method of separately identifying merged
or superposed interactions but mathematically it can be evaluated by equating density with ‘time
squared’. The caveat is that such evaluation of discrete density values cannot be treated as
separated or sequential events for it is a product of a simultaneous event.
              Any axiomatic process can be simulated realistically as the manifestation sequence
occurs in a medium comprising real component that remains in a dynamic state of oscillation. The
entire process can be depicted as an abacus with two modes of presentation. When all the beads
are aligned vertically it shows the potential state where-in the weight or mass of all beads act on
one point at the bottom simultaneously. If the same vertical line up is made horizontal the beads
can be moved sequentially depicting the transfer, movement or displacement as a kinetic motion
and the distance is entirely dependent on the spacing of beads as a harmonic state. Spacing as
time depicts momentum as same mass into acceleration into time while vertically the mass
increases within the same time without any movement. Hence the number of beads moved
horizontally must be reduced from the number in the vertical state thus satisfying the conservation
of action as momentum proportional to the change in potential at the same time.
              The gravitation and magnetic phenomena in Physics belongs to the simultaneously
interacting domain and as it is not measurable separately as discrete interactive states the
complication arises from the indirect mode of detecting it. The enigma of mass equal to energy/c 2
is a classical example of the foregoing caveat for the mass factor is recognisable only when it has
density in excess of unity. Such behaviour is a natural consequence of a substantial composition of
space.
              The Sankhya Sutras and its transliteration shown in the second part of the is indeed
the source of an axiomatic theory but to enable the reader understand that an axiomatic logic is a
self generating process the derivations below have been deliberately shown independent of any
reference to the Sutras thus proving the point.
              During an interaction between two very rigid components, the instant of collision,
reversal and separation between the two, marks the transition from the simultaneous to the
sequential states. The transition point is related to the rigid components in a self similar ratio for
both the ends of the rigid state acts simultaneously or in zero time interval which must explicitly
be derived through axiomatic methods. Ratios are valid only if the comparison of two parameters
relate to the same instant or moment of measurement. If not the comparison becomes a sequential
act where an interval of time is involved. Hence the ‘simultaneous state of activity’ of two or more
components, within the instant, must equal a numerical ratio of two similar parameters
whereas the ‘sequential separation interval’ must equal the sum of both, as it is not within the
minimum interval. At the impact point the simultaneous instant as a ratio must equal the
sequential interval as a sum when it is in balance, as shown below:
                                           1/x 1 x .                                           [0.1]
        This equation can be satisfied by solving the expression for a self-similar interactive
displacement interval, between two components as an axiomatic value 1+1 =2

                             x       1 22       1 /2      0.618034                             [0.2]
            Then
                                   1/x 1 x 1.618034                                            [0.3]
10
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``

            On transposing x it becomes
                                            1     x      x2                                     [0.4]

            Raising it as powers as simultaneous ratios, it changes to
                                         xn       xn 1        xn 2                              [0.5]
            Continuing, as the sum of infinite powers of x with n equal to infinity, it forms a
loop as [1.3]:
                                            xn    1/x 1 x                                       [0.6]
                                        1
            Finally, the combinatorial sum of the sequence of powers of xn to xn+n equals one, as
a super-symmetric series with combinatorial coefficients a, b etc forming the Pascal triangle, shown
below as an example :
                  x n 0 n x n 1 ax n 2 ax n n 2 n x n n 1 x n n 0 1 [0.7]
             The above sequence[1.7] enables the identification of self similar and scale invariant
ratios which form a coherent volume as in nuclear, black-hole, bounded or similar agglomerate
states in asymptotic freedom in Physics, that act as one single unit or simultaneously.
             The sequence of derivational changes form an extraordinary and unique logical-loop,
based on combinatorial values. It shows the characteristics of self-similarity and scale invariance
which exists at the instant of collision & separation, between two adjacent components. The
interactive phase of compressive collision being smaller, it is denoted by x 2 and the separation
interval being larger, is similarly denoted by x, leading to the period of reversal as:

                                              x   x2      x3                                    [0.8]

            Therefore, the compressive displacement interval after, adding x 3/2 is:
                                     x 2 ( x 3 /2 ) 1/2                                         [0.9]

            This is equal to the expansive phase, after subtracting x 2/2, as:
                                      x ( x 3 /2 ) 1/2                                        [0.10]

            Since both the compressive and expansive intervals are equal, the algebraic
displacement is zero and the interactive point must remain at the centre, if all the interactive
parameters do not change. Further, the asymptotic sum of the interactive ratio 1/2 approaches
1, confirming the consistent location of the collision at the centre, even at higher interactive count-
rates:
                                        n
                                            1/2 n 1/2 n          1                            [0.11]
                                        1
The foregoing derivation lays the foundation for the principle of self-similarity and scale invariance
but the rigorous mathematical proof is derived in a later chapter. The axiomatic value of a cycle is
obtained by combining x/2=.309017 iteratively with 1/2n combinatorially through the
expression:

                                                                                                   11
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                                                2
                                                            2
               An 1        1     1 ( A n )2            An       ......where.....A0   x /2    [0.12]
This leads to an axiomatic cycle of 10 interactions as n approaches infinity
            The equivalence of coherent states to synchronous states is equated through rewriting
the above as follows:
                                /( 2 n An ) 10....when....n                                [0.13]
                                           1n
                                           2
                                                    An 10                                    [0.14]
             Axiomatically, a resonant interactive cycle is limited to ten interactions for the cosine
of the angle at 36 degree interval is (2 /10) = 0.809017 equal to half the golden mean as
1.618034/2 and is totally in consonance with the derivation above. Hence a simultaneous cycle
of 10 interactions can be presented as a logarithmic index of one. Hence all numerical values in
Sankhya are presented as a mathematical code with the logarithmic index to base ten, which was
the prime reason earlier translators failed to do justice to the extraordinary theory. In order to be
transparent to the scientific reader the constants as ratios are derived at the relevant sequences
whereas in Sankhya it forms the preliminary sequence from which larger ratios are derived
axiomatically.
             The number of interactions taking place simultaneously within the instant cycle
defines the intensity of its activity or density of interactive stresses. The maximum density of
interactive counts and the minimum interval of time as the instant, form an inversely
proportionate ratio leading to an axiomatic, numerical constant Kx, in Sankhya. Though the
interactive colliding point remains at ratio 1/2, the constant Kx=0.9149879 defines its
boundary limit as an asymptotic sum of combinatorial number of simultaneous interactions
forming the instant and is equivalent to Catalan’s constant in mathematics. Kx is a pivotal
factor in Sankhya and is derived through axioms as shown below..
                    101 x 21/3 10 2 2
             Kx                                     0.9149879                                [0.15]
                     2 3 2 3 1 10 2

            The interactive count rate rises to C when the colliding interaction reverses to expand
or when the simultaneous state changes to a sequential one as in [1.8], as an expanding ratio of
2/x3:
                                                3
                                   C 10 2 /x        296575967                                [0.16]
The constant C is the axiomatic count rate of interactions per cycle between the components
comprising space following self similar and scale invariant rules of proportionality of simultaneous
ratios. (C is the axiomatic frequency of an electromagnetic wave of a meter wavelength in Physics).

The interactive count rate rises to Cx on the compressive part of the cycle and falls to C1-x on the
expansive phase.
                                   2
                      C x 10 2 /x 172213........C1 x 10 2 /x 1722.                          [0.17]
The factor Cx acts as a merged simultaneous group within one interactive cycle and is the stress
count density which transmigrates, as a set C1-x times to total C counts in a cycle such that the
displacement upon period is always C. Its interactive density rises and falls cyclically that creates
an accelerative state or force.
[It will be shown later that Cx forms the magnetic current and its transmigratory rate is not
limited whereas C1-x forms the electric current limited by a transfer rate of C. The magnetic

12
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
current or transmigration of simultaneous interactions, like gravitational acceleration is not
restricted or obstructed whereas the transmigration of an electric current needs a connected path for
it to be sustained ]
              Time is not a constant in space like the second in Physics. Since C is an axiomatic
constant of an interaction between two adjacent components, then length upon time gives the
displacement. Hence it depends on whether length, displacement or time is kept as a constant to
derive its mutual proportionality. However, in Sankhya, there is no alternative to counting
interactions as the method of deriving theoretical propositions, because the axiomatically derived C
is a universal constant. In the foregoing derivation the interactive cycle is balanced where the
compressive and expansive stresses are equal within that cycle, simultaneously. It leads to
profound consequences shown later. In a self similar and scale-invariant resonant cycle the
interactive count must be constant.
              The simultaneous count rate balances, maximises or minimises into a unit count,
depending on the algebraic sum of the logarithmic index.
                    1                    1    1                           1    1
                    3                     3   3                            3   3
                  10 x 17221.......10 x x             296575967.......10 x x 1               [0.18]
At an interactive count rate of 17221 the compressive and expansive states are equal and the
algebraic sum of stress is zero. At count rate C the ratio of compressive to expansive stress counts
is 100 or two simultaneous cycles.
In the sequential interactive state the difference between compressive and expansive phases of the
interactive cycle is Dc as Cx/C1-x:
                                                         2
                        Dc C x /C 1 x 10 2 /x /10 2 /x 10 2 100                      [0.19]
The delay Dc of 100 interactive cycles is in the sequential state when the volumetric change
becomes 2 and the radial ratio equals 21/3= k=1.259921. Hence the incremental ratio becomes
(k-1) =0.259921. Therefore the delay Dc/ (k-1) form a ratio with a loss of two interactions
per cycle, as the impedance to stress transmigration in space as Si:
                        Si   10 2 / k 1           10 2       2 /10 2   377.0376             [0.20]
The impedance to the transmigration of interactive stresses in space occurs only when there is an
accelerative displacement that causes the breakup of the simultaneous coherent state to crossover to
a sequential resonant state. It transfers the added stress count to the adjacent component as a
transmigratory process. The Si count per cycle as impedance is effective only when transmigration
is initiated by breaking the coherent state.
              In space the interactive oscillations among the components are volumetric. Therefore
the interactive count in all three axial directions would be C3. However, in a coherent interactive
state all the oscillations would act simultaneously and synchronously whereby two axes would
merge and its interactive counts would reduce to C. But the entire surface area would oscillate in
the breathing mode creating a unified surface area or flux of stress. Hence the detectable count
rate of the coherent volume would only be C but the merged and hidden surface area count as C 2
would initiate the oscillatory transmigration of stresses in both the compressive and expansive
mode. The changes in stress count densities would initiate accelerative transmigration in both the
simultaneous and sequential modes. The inward displacement would increase stress density and
counts would merge, while the outward expansion would decrease stress densities to increase counts
that cause detectable transmigratory displacements.
              The volumetric compressive phase density count ratio would be (C x) 3 and (Cx) 2 its
expansive area flux density count, while Cx would be the axial linear phase. Similarly (C1-x) 3
would represent the relative volumetric expansive count density, (C1-x) 2 its expansive flux count

                                                                                                 13
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
while C1-x would equal the decrease count due to expansion in any axial direction. However, the
product of compressive and expansive phases would equal C 3 as volumetric, C2 as area and C
as linear interactive values respectively.
              Stress transmigrates through an interactive cycle of compression and expansion. The
period of reversal impedes the stress count transfer rate proportionate to Si. In the compressive
phase C is increased as C Si = Cc and in the expansive phase it is reduced to C/Si=Ce:
                   Cc CSi 1.1182E 11.........Ce C /Si 7.866E 5                             [0.21]
The product of Cc and Ce equal C2 as the simultaneously oscillating surface and these merged
interactive counts cannot be observed but the accelerative changes can be detected and measured as
a force. The changes from compressive to expansive or simultaneous to sequential states are
carried out over a displacement distance ratio of (k-1)/1 in a cycle of C counts and causes a
shortfall in the stress transmigratory distance covered in that period as:
                                 Dl        k 1 /C 8.764E 10                                [0.22]
Dl is a relative ratio and if C is defined in metres/second then there would be a metre shortfall in
the distance covered in approximately 36.15 earth years. It has been observed experimentally as
‘the Pioneer anomaly” where the estimated position of Pioneer in orbit and interval of
electromagnetic signal reception time did not match and it was observed to progressively increase
with distance.
              In electromagnetic theory in Physics the reciprocal as 1/Cc is defined as the electric
field permittivity and 1/Ce as the magnetic field permeability          in free space.
                          1/Cc 8.847 E 12........           1/Ce 1.258E 6                  [0.23]
The Sankhyan derivation above simplifies and unifies all phenomena which are only due to the
interactive state of the components in space. C is the number of interactions per simultaneous cycle
comprising 10 interactions which is the ‘instant interval’ of a cycle. It is approximately equal to
the experimentally measured frequency of an electromagnetic wave of 1 metre wavelength, if the
duration of that cycle is a second. The difference between it and the experimental value of
CL=29979258 are due to a shift in frequency that is ‘logarithmically proportional to distance’
in a gravitational field, as Fc, with the Solar boundary radius RS=6.985E+8 and the orbital
radius of Earth Ro=1.491E+11:
                               Fc 10Rs /Ro 1.0108455 CL /C                                    [0.24]
This confirms the Sankhyan derivation that all electromagnetic waves, including light and gravity
waves, are interactive stresses created between the components forming the substratum of space and
transmigrate from a higher to a lower stress count. The resonant interactive stress in space is at a
self-similar and scale-invariant oscillatory rate of C per simultaneous interactive cycle formed by
10 such interactions. If the wavelength and time cycle of a light wave is set at a metre and second
then the frequency of the measured light wave CL would be higher than the rate C.
                    CL C 3.2165E 6....and .....CL /C 1.01084548                               [0.25]
It is based on an axiomatic logic that stresses in any physical medium must always transmigrate
from a higher to lower count and in space the interactive rate gives the intensity of these stresses.
Therefore C is the perpetual interactive rate and any transmigration of any type of stress must
have a higher rate than C. The observed Cosmological red shift is a conceptual error as CL is
much higher than C, because the Sun is the closest light emitting body. Since the light from every
stellar source is further than the Sun, it must have a lower count value than CL but higher than
C. Therefore Fc must be the largest blue shift for observers on the earth. The interpretation of
Hubble’s finding that space is expanding is axiomatically impossible in space comprising
substantial components. However the numerical value of Hubble’s red shift with distance has a

14
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
logical explanation. He defined the CL-C = 3.2E+6 as a mega-parsec and invented a new
aspect of an expanding Universe. The entire spectrum of such shifts are derived theoretically and
tabulated in a later chapter.
              The number of interactions taking place simultaneously within the instant cycle
defines the intensity of its activity or density of interactive stresses. The maximum density of
interactive counts and the minimum interval of time as the instant, form an inversely
proportionate ratio leading to an axiomatic, numerical constant Kx, in Sankhya. Though the
interactive colliding point remains at ratio 1/2, the constant Kx=0.9149879 defines its
boundary limit as an asymptotic sum of combinatorial number of simultaneous interactions
forming the instant and is equivalent to Catalan’s constant in mathematics. Kx is a pivotal
factor in Sankhya and is derived through axioms in a later chapter.
              In Sankhya, the concept of deriving a non-dimensional and scale-invariant theory is
fulfilled perfectly by defining the instant numerically through axioms, because all phases of a
fundamental interaction can be counted in terms of it. A colliding impact between two objects gave
the principle of identifying both the instant and its intensity through the simultaneity of action. In
three-dimensional space, the maximum number of simultaneously colliding interactive events
between elemental objects is limited to six, as the top, bottom, front, back, left and right sides of
an object. Earlier, a simultaneous interaction’s intensity or density was specified in terms of the
number of interactions within that instant.
              Then in principle, taking the numerical rate of interactive counts as C in each of the
six direction, its intensity or simultaneous count density at the point of collision becomes C6 and
its relative instant, the Moolaprakrity in Sanskrit, as Mly = Kx/C6. In Sankhya all
derivations are strictly dimensionless numerical interactive stress count ratios in terms of Mly,
which is the instant of time in an interactive cycle of ten simultaneous counts. Stating it
differently, a circular and recurring displacement path can only be maintained by ten self-similar
interactive intervals forming a cycle. Therefore the complete mathematical derivation of the entire
manifestation process is based on the principle of only counting interactions that indicate discrete
changes in cyclic time.
               Applying the numerical value of C, the ratio of the simultaneous instant in
dimensionless form is Mly = Kx/C6 = 1.344620Eminus51. The axiomatic derivational
concept and the numerical value of Mly is new to science but is approximately or very nearly
equal to Planck’s constant h/C2; hence is consistent with values in Physics. Contrary to the
practice in Physics, the oscillatory rate C in Sankhya is measured against a self-similar and
axiomatic cycle of ten of its resonant interactions forming the simultaneous instant or ten
sequential interactions within the cycle as instant of time and is not an arbitrary interval like the
second. The procedure above leads to self-similarity and scale-invariance, which factors are vital to
sustain a unified law of manifestation at all levels. Reiterating, the dimensionless ratio Mly is the
minimum cyclic interval, when two objects collide at the maximum interactive stress density and
components in space act as a continuum within that interval.
              Logically, unless the numerical count of ‘sequential interval of separation’ is greater
than the ‘simultaneous instant of collision’, the interaction among the components in space cannot
be counted or detected. Only a discrete change in time could be detected but when both the
simultaneous and sequential intervals are equal, there would be no difference. In a balanced state
both intervals remain equal. Hence space must remain undetectable. It is the main reason why all
efforts to detect space (as aether) failed totally, despite numerous intricate experiments carried out
by Michelson, Morley and several others. Since Mly forms the unit count, the interaction can
become detectable only when the sequential interval increases to Mly + Mly = 2Mly counts, but
there is a caveat.

                                                                                                  15
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
             When the ratio of the instant to sequential time-interval becomes one by two or half,
a state of resonance is initiated among the components in space. The equations [1.1] to [1.14]
spell out the rationale of how and why an interactive resonant rate is initiated and maintained in
a sea of components forming space. Stating it simply, when continuous interactive vibrations or
oscillations between two components remain in the same location it is a state of resonance. When
two similar objects vibrate resonantly at the same rate between two constraints separated by some
distance, the colliding point will always remain in the middle of the distance. When resonance is
broken the meeting point would shift progressively towards a lower interactive count rate.
Interactive stresses would begin to transmigrate beyond the point when resonance breaks and
creates harmonics.
             Reiterating, the only reason stresses transmigrate is due to a difference in the
interactive count rate from the resonant constant rate of C. Interactive stresses transmigrate from
a higher count rate to the resonant rate C and is absorbed into its simultaneous state of
interaction. The commonly observed mechanism of temperature transfer occurs for the same reason
but at another density level, to equalise oscillatory counts and reach thermal equilibrium. A Mly
ratio of 1/2 created a resonant state in one direction in which two components in the substratum
of space interacted simultaneously as a single entity thereby reducing the stress count at the
colliding central location. In a three dimensional continuum the stresses in a resonant state would
transmigrate inward from all six directions as top, bottom, right, left, front and rear to regain
balance. Hence 8 components would be confined by the inwards transmigration of stresses towards
its centre where the resonant interactive counts would reduce by merging, in attaining the
simultaneous state. The difference in stress intensity or interactive count density will change by a
ratio 7 because 23=8 less the primary state of 1. The acceleration of interactive stress counts
towards the centre of the 8 components forming a larger scale-invariant aggregate count would be
Ah:
                      Ah [(1 1)3 1] / Mly 7 / Mly 5.206E 51                                   [0.26]
The astronomical value of the interactive count indicates the intensity of stress transmigrating
towards the centre of the eight components. It is because all eight units act as a single unit thereby
reducing the 8 interactive counts to a single count per cycle by merging 7 counts as a
simultaneously interacting state in synchrony with the one. Ah binds the 8 components together in
a simultaneous and resonant state, to display the very first coherent particulate state at maximum
stress density. Transmigration of stresses towards its centre initiates the phenomena of gravitation
at the very fundament level where the maximum accelerative stress intensity is Ah. The value of
Ah is in counts of interactions per sequential cycle of 7 expanding volumes. It is self-similar,
scale-invariant and dimensionless.
             Mly defined the interval in time after which the simultaneously interacting continuum
changed to a sequential state wherein the interactions could be counted as discrete intervals of time
that existed between adjacent interactions. As shown earlier, the cycle of ten interactions is equal
to 2 as a ratio of radius to circumference. In all three directs it becomes (2 which gives the
increase in ratio as (2       Similarly the increase in volume within which the transitions occurs is
7. Therefore the ratio of change per unit radial increase of 7 volumes would be Tr:
                                          2 3      1
                                  Tr                      5.6398                             [0.27]
                                          2        7
           Similarly, taking the volume increase as 2, the radial displacement becomes 2 1/3
=k=1.259921, and the incremental or sequential difference is k-1=.259921. Therefore
comparing these two factors as a ratio of change of 2 volumes, as Tc:

16
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                                      2 3       1
                              Tc                         151.8862                          [0.28]
                                      2        k 1

Tr is the constant that defines the ratio of counts needed to break the coherent state symmetry to
change to a resonant state. Tc defines the ratio of counts that triggers the sequential
transmigration process by breaking the coherent volumetric state into harmonically resonant
states. As defined earlier, in the coherent state the Cc and Ce oscillatory state maintains the area
parameter as C2 in synchronisation and therefore Tc is needed to break that large value. The
mathematical formulation of breaking the synchrony is shown further below, after the derivation
of the Hadron / Lepton or Proton / Electron states from first principles.
             The maximum, simultaneous stress count density in all three axial directions is
Kx/Mly and in any one such direction it becomes (Kx/Mly) 1/3. The maximum inward
acceleration Ah will compress interactive stress counts between two components in space into a
rigid and dense continuum such that both act as a single unit as Lp:
                         Lp [( Kx /my )1/3 ] / Ah 1.6896E 35                                [0.29]
Extending that logic further the 8 components in space will project a rigid interactive and relative
volumetric state of Lp3:
                                    Vp Lp 3 4.82E 105                                       [0.30]
Therefore in principle Lp3 would be the volumetric ratio, with the densest interactive stresses per
count, going inward towards the centre of the 8 components forming a single group. Hence the
ratio Lp would be the smallest displacement interval. In order to establish Lp’s connection with
dimensional characteristics in Physics, C can be taken as the stable axiomatic oscillatory rate per
cycle, as in Sankhya. Then C into Fc metres as wavelength would equal CL metres per cyclic
second as velocity, confirmed experimentally. Then, Lp equals Planck Length in metres and
Lp/C = 5.697E – 44, would equal Planck time in seconds. In a dynamic and resonant
substratum the axiomatic value of C must be the stable and constant motivating potential as
shown earlier. On converting Ah to its equivalent value of time in seconds in Physics:
                                Ahc     7 / MlyC     1.76 E     43                         [0.31]
The reciprocal of Ahc signifies the minimum time in seconds where two interactions can merge to
form a single event and is equal to Planck’s time as Tp or Lp/C. Reiterating, Mly is the
axiomatic instant of time that separates two interactions at maximum interactive count density,
whereas the ‘second’ in time is defined in many experimental ways but is standardised on the
frequency of the caesium atom.
                     Tp     MlyC /7      5.697 E     44...sec onds    Lp /C                [0.32]
Stating it differently, at an interval less than Tp seconds, the components in space act as a
continuum as the interactive stress density is at its maximum. Therefore the components in space
will behave as a solid or rigid or incompressible object of length Lp metres in an interactive cycle
of C interactions per second. Acceleration Ah is also confirmed by the following classical ratios:
                      Lp/Tp 2 C /Tp Ah 7 / Mly 5.206E 51                                   [0.33]
   If Lp as the smallest, rigid and coherent displacement changes its stress level to a resonant
state, as Ne:
                             Ne Lp 3Tr /Lp 2 9.5287E 35                                   [0.34]
             The parameters, Lp in metres and Tp in seconds form the smallest length and time
interval in space. But Lp is the length of one side of the volumetric component in space which has

                                                                                                17
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
a dynamic volume Vp as Lp3 cubic metres, in an oscillatory state with the highest interactive
stress density. Similarly Tp3 into C3 = Lp3 = Vp which must be interpreted as the
instantaneous ratio of the 8 ‘component volume’ to the cube of the ‘interval of time’ that yields the
value of the simultaneous interactive stress counts, as an axiomatic three dimensional constant.
Because Vp is at the maximum volumetric stress density and rigidity, stresses would tunnel
instantly across any number of such units that are directly in a straight line with the accelerating
stress. The break in tunnelling creates the Ne states, depending on stress count densities. Hence
Ne states of various levels, from one to seven, can appear instantly at great distances. Reiterating,
the 8 real components in space are bound together by the inward acceleration of stress counts Ahc
that merge into a simultaneous interactive state at the centre where the stress counts reduce to a
single cycle but at high density.
          Therefore, each component in space has a relative volume Vp
equal to Lp3 and stress count density C3 in a coherent state where the time
is Tp3 but with Tp2 merged to give the proportional flux density parameter
for the inward accelerating interactive stress-counts at a rate Ah as
gravitational acceleration. The gravitational acceleration as the
fundamental and ubiquitous force has the greatest rate in simultaneous
interactive states, but reduces in proportion to change in area and is not a
the weakest force as surmised in Physics. In fact all other forces have the
same mode of action which is that higher interactive count rates
transmigrate towards lower ones that have become so through merging.
(Recall the 10 clap example as proof).
             The coherent combination of 8 components bound by the phenomenal Ah accelerative
stress transmigration towards its centre establishes not only the rational for the gravitation process
but also provides the mechanism for a particulate state formation. The constant Kx forming the
coherent state core boundary value would also increase by the same factor of 8-1=7 states. But the
incremental value in cyclic time would be proportionate to Gm as:
                              Gm [( 2 3 /7 ) 1] 7 7.142857                                    [0.35]
Gm is a universal constant that defines the transformation of a volumetric coherent state into a
resonant state. Volume of each component as Gm/7 is in a perpetual resonant state as Rs:
                                    Rs Gm /7 1.020408                                         [0.36]
The cycle of 10 resonant and simultaneous interactive counts would become 103=1000 sequential
interactive counts when the resonant state is broken and the increase in ratio would be
1000/10=100 during a period of change of 2 cyclic instants. Therefore the rate of loss of
resonance or decay would be the asymptotic sum of the ratio of the difference rates as Rs:
                                             2 n
                                 Rs                  1.0204081633                             [0.37]
                                         0 100
The factor Rs ensures that resonance decays in infinite cyclic time or is virtually perpetual. Any
comparative equation that equals the ratio Rs signifies its perpetually resonant status or that the
decay in resonance will occur in infinite cycles or time.
             The core Kx, increases to its maximum interactive count level as Mp in an
additional cycle and breaks its coherence to reach a resonant state through the Gm factor:
                       Mp     Kx( Gm )      6.536....also....Mp /7 Kx      Rs                [0.38]
Mp the maximum stress density parameter in a resonant state that equals Rs and hence it is a
perpetual oscillatory state or resonance decays in infinite cycles / time.


18
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
On converting it to the time value of a second in Physics, it creates the Planck Mass as Mps and
if 1 cubic metre per second accelerative displacement is equated to a kilogram in terms of a
coherent mass:
                               Mps     Mp /C         2.2037 E 8..Kgs                              [0.39]
The maximum core stress density ratio as Planck density is Dp:
                            Dp Mps /Lp 3 4.57E 96..kgs /m 3                                    [0.40]
Similarly the space stress intensity ratio as St in kgs per second, identified as the metric elasticity
of space by Sakharov and Chandrashekhar in Physics is:
                                  St Mps /Tp 3.868E 35                                         [0.41]
The stress intensity above has been adjusted to the cyclic instant of time Tp in seconds. The
intensity in terms of a change in relative volume during a second would give the constant rate of
change of volumetric stress in space, within the same time period, as G Sankhya or Gs:
                                                     2
                                                Cx
                          Gs    St /C 3
                                                k3
                                                           1.482879E 10                           [0.42]

The proof for Gs is confirmed by breaking the coherent volumetric state into its equivalent
resonant state as minimal area times maximum acceleration into Gs must equal the maximum
coherent stress density as mass:
                       Gs      Mps / Lp 2 7 / Mly            1.482879E 10                         [0.43]
There are three more modes of proof for the constant Gs:
           Mps /Tp C
                         3
                               Mps / Lp C
                                            2
                                                         Mps Tp
                                                                  2
                                                                      / Lp
                                                                             3
                                                                                 Dp Tp
                                                                                         2
                                                                                             Gs   [0.44]
From the foregoing, the structure of each component in space can be expressed in terms of a real
object, where D=maximum density, T=minimum time, M=maximum unit mass, V=the
limiting volume and Lp= the smallest length of a rigid object.
 (Area x acceleration x flux D)=(V x (flux D/T2)) =(V x mass D) = M                        [0.45]
                 Lp 2 Lp/Tp 2 Gs Lp 3 Gs /Tp 2 Lp 3 Dp Mps                                [0.46]
Hence the relative dimensional attributes of each component in space is Lp3 as volume, Dp as
density and Mps as mass and the process of derivation has established the parameters to be the
limit in each of its type relative to the axiomatic value of C.
             Gs, the surface area flux stress intensity that separates the simultaneous or
compressive or continuum state of the components in space from its sequential or expansive or
quantised characteristics forms a universal constant. Value of Gs provides the dividing parameter
between the coherent volume and resonant volume or when exactly the solid surface characteristics
alter into a fluid state. The stresses in the three axial directions are in phase so that the
components act as a single, rigid, dense mass but breaks coherence to attain the resonant and
expansive phase at stress intensity rate of change less than Gs. The interval of time between
interactions is minimal as 1/GsFc = G, which forms the Newtonian gravitational constant in
Physics:
                                  G 1/GsFc 6.6712819E 11                                  [0.47]
          It is evident from the above derivation that the Newtonian form of
the gravitational constant is a consequence of the merged simultaneous
interactive counts Cx squared in a compression cycle that increased the
stress density to 2 (=k3 ) shown in equation [1.41]. It occurs in space that

                                                                                                     19
              Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
has a maximum stress intensity of St as in equation [1.40], which has been
identified by both Sakharov and Chandrashekhar as the metric elasticity of
space. Hence space cannot be treated as a void in a vacuous state.
             The real nature of G is an interval of cyclic time that separates the interactions before
it merges into a continuum or combines the components in space into a rigid group by an inward
acceleration because the interactive rate has reduced by combining. Further, the merging can take
place only when the time interval reduces in each axial direction identically to attain a coherent
state. The reason for the failure to see its true characteristics lies in not realising that dynamism is
an inherent part of the cyclic time parameter. Plurality of elemental components must naturally
lead to interactive states. Therefore components in space act as a rigid aggregate when its
interactive interval of time, in seconds, is less than G or compressive stress intensity is more than
Gs. It determines when the coherent state of mass with a centre of action is formed from the
balanced resonant state.
             The merging of Tp2 in a coherent state gives an addition proof that Gs is equal to the
maximum interactive stress intensity as an accelerative flux in relation to Dp as the maximum
volumetric stress density:
                                                     2
                                           Dp Tp         Gs                                     [0.48]
The proof for Gs can be strengthened by deriving both Dp and Gs through an alternative method.
As shown before C transmigrates as Cx in the dense mode of a simultaneous state within the
instant and its volumetric value as C3 hides a merged ratio of (Cx)2 during the period of volume
or density change of 2 units. Therefore Gs should equal:
                                              2
                                Gs      Cx        /2 1.4829E 10                                 [0.49]
In the compressive mode Cx is increased C times per cyclic second as C 1+x and when the instant
is increased to 2 the volumetric increase is 8-1 =7 as a simultaneous interaction into k as the
radial increase. Therefore the maximum stress density would be Dp:
                                                    7
                               Dp        C1 x k          4.596E 96                              [0.50]
The fact that the maximal values of Dp, Tp and Gs can be individually derived in separate ways
without destroying its mutual proportionality is the acme of precision, self-similarity, scale-
invariance and logical rigor, based on axioms. Such conformity cannot be accidental.
             Unless the interactive counts are greater than Tc between two axial directions across
a radial gap with a ratio of k-1, both would act as a single interactive surface. Therefore the
ability to count, detect and measure interactive states is possible only after a cyclic interval equal to
(Tc-1) times Tp in seconds. Converting it to a displacement ratio in which stresses would begin to
transmigrate is [(k-1) C] m/s. Therefore the constant h as Planck’s constant must be:
                     h Tp Tc 1 k 1 C 6.62619863 10 34                                            [0.51]
         The spectrum of simultaneous interactive stresses, from Mly to h,
is hidden and undetectable from direct experimental observation because
these interactive counts have merged to become a dense and coherent
stress count volume as a single quantum that transmigrates from
component to adjacent component in space Tq:
                                  Tq     h / Mly     4.9278E 17                                 [0.52]
Therefore each accelerative quantum transfers Tq interactive stress counts simultaneously to the
next component in space which is at the Ne state. Therefore the total reduction in the stress
counts is (h-Ne)/Mly as Th:

20
              Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                             Th      h    Ne / Mly       4.2192E 17                            [0.53]
             The quantum h transmigrates from one quantum to the next in a volumetric
resonant oscillatory ratio by expanding from 1 to 2 volumes, which gives a radial displacement
ratio of k. Therefore the total transmigratory count is kTh as Hp:
                                   Hp kTh 5.3158E 17                                        [0.54]
             Hp is the equivalent of the Hubble’s expansion parameter which was interpreted as
a redshift in the frequency of light received from distant stellar sources. The displacement of light
at C frequency is Fc metres per interactive cycle per second which gives the transmigratory distance
of Hp as FcHp and Ly= 3.26 mega parsec as the distance Hubble’s had used to obtain the
ratio of expansion. Then Er as the expansion ratio is:
                 Er     Ly / FcHp        3.084E     22 /5.373E 17           57395 m.           [0.55]
             Therefore Ly/Er = FcHp is indeed the distance at which the entire potential of
simultaneous stress counts of Th is expended over that distance after which the second harmonic
at 1/8 the stress density transmigrates over a similar distance Hp. The reduction in volumetric
stress density increases the interval of separation between interactive counts which is reflected in the
frequency spectrum of the light received from a distant stellar body. In Sankhya theory
space can never expand as it must absorb any interactive stress count rate
higher than C.
              The Planck’s constant h indicates that when resonance is broken by Tc, the distance
that the interactive stresses in space would transmigrate across a resonant radial gap (k-1) to
create the first volumetrically resonant harmonic. It is defined as the Compton wavelength in
Physics and is a linear term, whereas it is indeed a volumetric displacement of cyclic interactive
stress, as shown later on. The description of Plank’s constant h in Physics as the quanta or
photon indicates it is the first holographic quantum of stress that is accelerated to transmigrate
across the gap created by the second sequential volumetric harmonic, which resonates in step with
the primary volume. From this derivation the definition of mass and charge can be established as;
when interactive stresses in space can be compressed it is a charge whereas when it acts as rigid
continuum it is a mass. But the transition from charge to mass is not sudden but takes Tc
interactive stress counts over a distance of k-1 and volume change of 7, which has been equated to
h in seconds. Therefore the quantum of stresses transmigrating over a relative distance k-1
constitutes work or energy and a photon must decay over distance. Hence this transition spectrum
of stresses as Ne, remain in the same or (k-1) location of the boundary as a resonant holographic
quantum in a perpetual oscillatory state and is measured as the Compton wavelength. As long as
the Ne oscillatory stresses do not transmigrate the oscillations continue. When 7 Ne are
accelerated simultaneously across the k-1 to equal h as the quanta or photon, the loss in
sequential stress per quantum is Lq counts per cyclic second:
                     7 Ne       h          k 1 k 1            1
              Lq                       C2                               3.275E 15         [0.56]
                      Mly Mly                7       7 Cc Ce
                                       h    1
                             Lq                            3.275 E 15                          [0.57]
                                      Mly Tc 1
             Lq, the difference in coherent potential, is also equal to the variation in surface area
flux density of the electromagnetic field and is shown above. It is also equal to the stress count
that breaks coherence to initiate sequential transmigration. Count values above Lq, the resonant
interactive stress count, stresses transmigrate with outward acceleration whereas from 1 to 6 Ne
where the counts are less, the acceleration is inward that gets progressively larger. At 7/Mly

                                                                                                    21
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
=Ah, the maximum accelerative count, it is evident that the resonant Ne state must be triggered
instantly to 7Ne for a photon to radiate. Unless at least one Ne is motivated to transmigrate no
stress transfer takes place and no work or energy functions. Ne, the resonant state, is the neutrino
in Physics and does not transmigrate but any change in stress count in excess of Tr creates it at
that location. In Physics Lq is equal to 13.6 volts. As Gm is the transfer constant from
coherence to resonance, 13.6/Gm = 1.89 volts which is the work function value in the
photoelectric effect.
             Gs, the Sankhyan interactive stress ratio that determines when a volumetric
interaction is coherent or resonant. Recalling that inward acceleration is caused by reduced
interactive counts due to merging, transmigration of stresses towards the centre increases
compressive stresses around the components in space and maximises when the interactive count
difference between each axial direction becomes less than Tc. The reverse outward transmigration
commences when the counts between two axes become more than Tc. Within the transition period
of Tc, a resonant state prevails.
             The foregoing derivation establishes the nature of interactive states of the components,
comprising space, in the simultaneous and resonant modes. The combining of 8 components into a
simultaneous state, through the Ahs inward accelerative stress as gravitation, led to the derivation
of the 7 incremental volumetric states of Mp. At the same time the stress intensity or interactive
count density at the resonant boundary would change to a lower level as ratio Px:
                                                                3
                                        10 2   10 2     10 2
                     Px       1
                              2
                                                                      20.94799              [0.58]
The change, compared to Kx, as a ratio P:
                                   P Kx /Px 0.04367904                                      [0.59]
             The factor 10/ denotes the interactive transition from the coherent state to the
resonant state in each axial direction. Extending it to the domain of experimental Physics, with
the value of time in seconds, (in volumetric form,) PM in kgs as m3/s3 and the same dimensional
process can be continued though the values are derived as dimensionless interactive count ratios.
                                PM P /C 3 1.67442 10 27                                    [0.60]
             PM is the transitional state of the coherent core Mps state into a resonant particulate
state and forms the resonant nucleus in Physics. It is an undetectable resonance at the surface
boundary of the 8 combined components of space. Analysing the entire spectrum of transition from
the coherent Mp to the resonant P and Mps to PM, the compressive and expansive interactive
stresses remains in total balance, confined within the same location. It therefore provides a
dynamic potential head that would radiate the stresses in a sequential transmigratory mode when
the difference in the interactive interval exceeds Tc. Therefore the ratio of compressive to
expansive stresses in the simultaneous and resonant states can be derived as Mp/P or Mps/PM
in terms of the second in Physics:
                                   ( Mp )( Px ) 149.62847                                  [0.61]
                                        Mps /PM     1.316 E 19                              [0.62]
                                  Mps
                                  PM
                                          P
                                          Mp
                                                C   2   1
                                                                8.796E 16                   [0.63]
                                     Mps
                                    PMxPx
                                               C 2Gm     2
                                                         10
                                                               1018                         [0.64]
            The above transition marks the ratio of change from a resonant to a coherent state
and is extremely significant. Firstly, Mp/P is less than Tc thereby ensuring that the coherent

22
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
state will never be broken spontaneously to attain a resonant state. Secondly the transition from
the resonant sequential to the simultaneous coherent states has a merged ratio C 2, signifying that
the charge to mass and vice versa conversion is exactly the same as found experimentally. The
source of the permittivity and permeability constants arises from changes in the Mps/PM
domain, which has never been identified in Physics. Hence the erroneous idea had evolved that
electric and magnetic fields were mutually induced and therefore it had the ability to propagate its
force to infinite distances. Thirdly, there are 18 orders of interactions, each equal to 2 /10 of a
cycle, merged into simultaneous state at high interactive stress density and conceptually it can be
seen as winding numbers or cycles frozen together. It forms the potential well as stress counts
merged into the simultaneous state that causes the tremendous inward acceleration as the source
for gravitation.
              The dynamic potential in the coherent state as merged simultaneous interactions
provides the acceleration to radiate a quantum of stress as Ps:
                                           Mps
                               Ps          PM
                                                      1
                                                     Px
                                                            6.2827E 17                       [0.65]
The ratio of dynamic potential Ps and the intensity of stress in space St is a perpetual state as:
                                                 Ps 2
                                      Rs          St
                                                           1.02040816                        [0.66]
The sequential interactive counts required to accelerate a stress quantum is Ks:
                                 Ks        h / Mly         4.9278E 17                        [0.67]
The difference as a ratio of Ps/Ks is Pp:
                                                                 2
                          Pp     Ps
                                 Ks
                                           1.27495          2
                                                             7
                                                                     Rs 1     1
                                                                             Tc 1
                                                                                             [0.68]
The simultaneous to sequential transition ratio Pp is larger than the needed displacement ratio k
in order to provide the coherent symmetry breaking constants shown on the right. Reiterating, the
nucleus, comprising 8 components bound by gravitational acceleration Ah, is a simultaneously
interacting combination of a coherent and resonant interactive oscillations, compressive at the core
as Mps and expansive at the boundary surface as PM, providing the potential to sustain a
perpetual harmonic oscillatory state and initiates the transmigration of stresses when its harmonic
balance is upset.
              While the compressed Mps had the Lp3 forming Vp with extremely high density
interactive stresses PM as the expansive state, has a relative volumetric state Vm created by Rp:
             Rp k 1 /C 1 x 5.089E 15.........Vm Rp 3 1.318E 43 [0.69]
The resonant state commences by expanding to twice the volume and k-1 is the incremental
displacement. Along with it the constant C increases by Cx to occupy the incremental
displacement gap. The Mps stress density Dp reduces to PM/Vm as Pd:
                                                                             3
                                                                       Cx
                        Pd     PM /Rp 3            1.27 E 16           k 1
                                                                                 Kx
                                                                                 Px
                                                                                             [0.70]
The gravitational acceleration at the boundary surface reduces to a very small value Pg:
                                    Pg            PM
                                                 Rp 2 Gs
                                                            4.36 E 9                         [0.71]
Because the inward acceleration is very low as Pg, the outward stress transmigration can be
initiated easily. The period of cyclic time (second) is Pt:
                          Pt      Rp /Pg         Gs /Pd 1.08038E 3                        [0.72]


                                                                                                     23
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Also the Permittivity and Permeability parameters are directly connected to Rp as the radial
distance of the coherent surface of PM. Hence the mode of derivation of the two parameters in
Physics is an approximation as the existence of the Pho state had not been established.
In Sankhya time is not a separate parameter for it only indicates the interactive interval in an
axiomatically dynamic oscillatory state. Therefore, as Mly was derived on the bases of an
accelerative transmigration from all six sides of a volumetric state, then Pt 6 x Ps =1:
                         Pt 6 Ps (1.59E 18 ) ( 6.283E 17 ) 1                                [0.73]
Two important principles are covered in this equivalence. Volumetric change in interactions in the
simultaneous state is equal to the change in the cyclic interval thereby proving that no stresses are
unaccounted for. Or that the algebraic sum of the exchange of compressive and expansive stresses
are zero. Since measurable time is not involved no work or energy is lost in resonant decay, hence
the entire oscillatory process can continue perpetually. Therefore the complex nuclear state will
decay in infinite cycles or time. Its proof is provided by the constant of resonant decay in infinite
cycles Rs:
                       Mps /[( PM )( Px )( C 2 )( 7 )] Rs 1.02040817                        [0.74]
              Beyond the PM boundary the resonant state can change to an outward accelerative
stress transmigratory transfer when the resonant symmetry is broken. Gm is the constant that
transforms the coherent state to a resonant one. The incremental displacement ratio k-1and the
seven incremental volumes during the expansive phase form a ratio Ke = (k-1)/7 in each axial
direction and in all three it is Ke3 and the ratio of increase is Ke2. The increase in volumetric
ratio when expanding resonentially is 2 or k3. When PM expands the stress density must reduce
to Pm:
                            Pm PM   Gm
                                          2 Gm
                                             2
                                                     1.67262151E 27                         [0.75]
                                       1 Ke     2

When PM expands it reduces to Pm and on the compressive cycle it increases to Pn:
                     Pn     PM  2 Gm
                            Gm 1 Ke 2 2
                                              1 Ke 2    1.67492765 E 27                     [0.76]
Pn is the Neutron mass and Pm is the Proton mass in kgs while PM is not yet recorded in
Physics. PM is a pivotal coherent state in substantial space. The proof that Pn, PM and Pm are
in a perpetual harmonic oscillatory state is given below:
                PM Pm
                Pn PM
                           2
                          Gm
                                   1..( and ).. PM
                                                 Pn PM
                                                      Pm  2
                                                          7
                                                                Rs 1.02040817          [0.77]
The above proof shows that compression and expansion stress exchange takes place perpetually
within the same cyclic time and the average value is Gm/2 as Gmr:
                                 Gmr Gm /2 3.57142857                                       [0.78]
Gmr is the dimensionless nuclear gyromagnetic ratio in a free field of space. The difference between
Gm/2 and 7/2 = 1/14 and confirms the perpetual status as 7-(-7) =14, as a precisely
balanced interactive state. Both Mps and PM are factored by Gm, proving again that the
coherent and resonant states exchange coherent mass in the Gm cycle whereas the Pn & Pm
states exchange coherent charge as mass. The exchange of compressive and expansive stress within
the nuclear boundary is a change in the stress density as a potential. The similar exchange at the
2nd harmonic boundary accelerates stresses to transmigrate to the adjacent component in space.
The symmetry breaking parameter Tc and the impedance to stress transmigration Si/Rs form a
ratio as Si/(Tc Rs) and the stress count intensity of PM is reduced at its harmonic boundary as
Mep as kgs:


24
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                                                 2
                         Mep     PM Ke               k 1
                                                     100
                                                             Tc       9.114E 31              [0.79]
Simplifying PM/Mep can be written as:
                                           2          2
                                   7
                                  k 1
                                                10
                                                2
                                                            1837.187315                      [0.80]
Mep is the compressive flux stress density at the 2nd harmonic surface boundary oscillating as a
single spherical envelope around PM, at the resonant rate of C but with a volumetric
displacement of twice that of Vm. The Mps density of Dp was derived using (C 1+x k) 7 as the
compressive state. Similarly the expansive state is C1-x and its sequentially interactive and merged
density is Dm:
                                                                  7
                                               Dm          C1 x                              [0.81]
                           Me         Dm
                                      Ah
                                                1     2
                                                       5
                                                              9.11023E 31                    [0.82]
         Mep is the resonant stress flux density value when the PM boundary compresses. Me is
the merged stress flux density when Mps expanded. Therefore, PM in the Pho state has a Gmr
ratio that would resonate with its boundary if the oscillations are to continue perpetually.
Therefore the difference in compressive stress density between Mep and Me must enable the
derivation of the expanded density state as Mee or the Electron in Physics. But the 2 nd harmonic
boundary has a displacement ratio of k that would modify the Gmr proportionately.
                                               Mep Me
                        Mee      Me             kGmr
                                                             9.10938382E 31                  [0.83]
Mee is the Electron stress density and matches experimental findings precisely. The proof is
shown below:
                                                                          Mep Me
                         PM Pm
                         Pn PM
                                      Gmr            3.57142857         ( Me Mee )k
                                                                                             [0.84]
Gmr is the ratio of the finest level of difference between compressive and expansive oscillatory
states and has a value of GmrC oscillations per second as Ls:
                          Ls GmrC 1.0591998E 9....cycles /sec                                 [0.85]
Ls is the increased rate needed to create the Gmr ratio from the normal Pho rate.
          It is an extraordinary state of dynamic balance but is made to
seem sterile mathematically. The left side of the Gmr equation is in the
simultaneously interactive state C, at a much higher stress density level and
the compressive and expansive stresses exchange counts too are at the
same rate Gmr. Whereas the right side is in the sequentially resonant state
C, but at a much lower stress flux density level, at a displacement ratio k
and rate of Gmr. Change in sequential time at the Mee or Electron level as
charge is converted to a simultaneous potential level as mass at the Pm or
Proton level, within the same period. The mechanism of converting both
the simultaneous counts as potential and the sequential count as a time
interval is by varying the stress count rate change both additively and
logarithmically at the same time. It is a tunnelling process where density is
increased by converting the count to its logarithmic value or by creating the
simultaneous state through incremental stress counts that breaks
resonance. The
     The ratio of two sequentially interacting components will have a cyclic ratio difference as


                                                                                                   25
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                                  1      1       1 22      0.5527864                       [0.86]
In the simultaneous interaction the logarithmic increase of C will be Lq:
 Lsq Log( C ) .5527864 9.02492235.( and )10 9.02492235 1.05906436E 9 [0.87]
The logarithmic value Lsq is less than Ls because the perpetual resonance factor Rs has been
changed by the increase in count rate consequent to decrease in the Pp ratio of change from
simultaneous to sequential states. The compressive stress count as Cx /Pp = 1.35076825E+5,
is the ratio needed to break resonance but the cyclic time in which this interaction occurs must be
reduced from Pp. The ratio of radius to circumference is 2 and 1/ (2 is the coherent or
simultaneous time value for a coherent cycle. Therefore:
                                                    3
                         C x / Pp            1/2         1.35505304E 5                     [0.88]
Correcting Ls:
           Lsq 1.35505304E 5 [1.05906438.E 9 ][ 7C                    2
                                                                         ] 1.02027762 [0.89]
The value above is less then Rs=1.02040817 providing the proof that the simultaneous
potential stress count has reduced through a logarithmic factor to provide the increase in the
sequential count at the expense of a change in Rs.
             Ls is the Lambshift, found experimentally in Physics and it gives proof of the
continual exchange of stress quanta as photons that keeps the Pm as Proton and Mee as
Electron in a dynamic state. Here again Mep, Me and Mee exchange sequentially resonant
charges, ready to transmigrate. However, as stated earlier, the Mee or the Electron has an
interactive displacement of k, which would affect experimental measurement by a proportionate
impedance factor Si as follows:
 [1/(1 k1 1 )100 ] 1 1.002063.(.and )Ls /1.002063 1.05701926E 9                               [0.90]
The measured value of 1057 Mcs is a convincing proof for Sankhyan theory as it is an
axiomatic derivation in which there are no uncertainties, hence all the interactive stress count
values are shown precisely and unambiguously. Further proof is provided by precise matching of
ratios of important parameters for which there is no theoretical reason in Physics but as shown the
Sankhyan axiomatic derivation leaves no room for doubt.
The Proton to Electron mass ratio as a dimensionless number is an enigma in Physics. The Pho
state derivation demonstrated the equivalence of the Electron as the boundary state of the Proton,
both of which oscillated at the same rate C.
                                                                         2
                                  Pn
                                  Pm
                                             1.00137875 1        k 1
                                                                  7
                                                                                           [0.91]
                                                                    2          2
                            PM
                            Mep
                                        1837.18731507          7
                                                              k 1
                                                                         10
                                                                         2
                                                                                           [0.92]
                 Pn
                 Me
                                      Pn
                      1838.512267.... Mee                          Pm
                                                    1838.6838..... Mee        1836.1522    [0.93]
                                  Pm
                                  Mee
                                             1
                                                   1.00000025846445                        [0.94]
             The Pm/Mee ratio 1836.15219687196, as the Proton to Electron mass ratio,
referred to as or in Physics, is recorded as 1836.1526724718. It is slightly larger because
the hidden PM/Mep ratio that forms the reference base which is not yet discovered in science has
coloured the experimental measurement. The proof given here discloses the real nature of the
Pm/Mee ratio which has been derived axiomatically and confirms its correctness compared to the
measured value

26
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                7 2          2
               k 1
                        10
                        2
                                 1
                                       1.00056348397         PM Mee
                                                             Mep Pm
                                                                        1.000563743           [0.95]
              The comparison of with PM/Mep and the same with Pm/Mee as the actual
value of the Proton and Electron in a resonant state of balance shows a small difference. Any
experimental measurement interferes with the resonant state and hence both the Proton and
Electron have a different measured value from that shown in Sankhya. It must be reiterated
strongly that axiomatic derivations cannot be changed and therefore form a benchmark, as it has
been proved by the foregoing.
              All the ratios match precisely, considering that the axiomatically derived values
cannot be changed but experimental measurement errors need tolerance levels. Since all the states
relate to stress levels on the components in space, the accelerative environment on the earth would
induce errors in measurement too. Reiterating, the derivation of the Pho state and all its
concomitant ratios based on axiomatic fundamentals, at the most important core level of Physics,
have never been carried out nor attempted. However, the precise equivalence of experimental
findings provides unequivocal confirmation for Sankhyan logic that all phenomena can be derived
b the process of counting interactions combinatorially. The single variable needed to balance
phenomena is cyclic time.
              The derivation of the Mps, PM, Pn, Pm, Mep, Me, Ne and Mly states from
fundamentals are possible because the relative time-interval remains constant in a coherent and
resonant environment comprising the components in space. However the Mee or Electron is the
balancing outer surface boundary of Pm or Proton and therefore neither its relative oscillatory
interval nor the boundary displacement ratio is ever constant. Since the process of balancing
involves changes in the transmigration rates and flux density, the Mee state mass value is only
correct at the instant of balance in sustaining the Pho state. Hence it is the only parameter that
cannot be derived independently but it has to be equated to an axiomatic constant of balance.
Because of its changing characteristics it is the only state that can be directly detected by counting.
               The Pho stress is compressive at Mep, resonant at Me, attains coherence at Mps
and expansive at the second harmonic level of Mee, at a radial displacement ratio k forming the
boundary of PM. Similarly the higher density stress is compressive at Pn, resonant at PM,
attains coherence at Mps and expands at Pm. All oscillate at the resonant Pho rate of C, at
twice the volumetric displacement Vm. While the interaction between adjacent components is
sustained at an axiomatic rate of C, any accelerative change increases the count rate by a
logarithmically proportionate decrease in the potential ratio Pp. Therefore the harmonic state of
the continuum in space is kept in dynamic balance perpetually. If and when any interactive rate
goes below C, it is absorbed and the local potential rises through logarithmic conversion. The
interactive control mode is based on modulating stress count densities through logarithmic
variation of count rate of the standard C. All the other coherent states mentioned above cannot be
counted directly but can be inferred through the state of the Mee electron state due to changes in
stress count density and interactive intensity. However all the stable particulate states can be
calculated precisely because of the single self-similar and scale-invariant Guna law of interactions,
shown earlier.
               Further proof of the internal nuclear structure of the coherent Mps and resonant PM
in the Pho state is derived as follows. Stress density variations in the coherent and compressive
state, changes mass proportionately whereas in the resonant and expansive interactions the
sequential time interval alter as frequency of charge transmigration. In the Mps/PM mass change
cyclically, both compressive as C1+x and expansive as C1-x interact simultaneously within a cycle
and produce two phases. In the expansive phase of 7 sequential changes take place additively but
in the simultaneous compressive phase it changes logarithmically. The three modes of compressive,

                                                                                                   27
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
resonant and expansive as Dp & Dm, C1+x & C1-x and Cc & Ce respectively are shown
below at its maximum value in the coherent domain.
             [ Dp Dm ] /k7 [( C 1 x )( C 1 x )] 7 ( 1/Cc 1/Ce )7 C 2 x7
                                                                                            [0.96]
            C 2 x7 4.07289E 118
The ratio of compressive and expansive stress is in the same order of the three modes, as given
above:
                                      Px 7 1.77 E 9                                         [0.97]

                        ( C 1 x C 1 x )7           ( Gs k3 )7    2.018E 73                  [0.98]

                               ( Ce Cc )7 Si 2 7 1.173E 36                                [0.99]
The product total of the three ratios must equal the maximum stress density in the coherent
domain if the Pho state is:
                        Px 7      Si 2 7    Gs 7 k 3 7          4.19114E 118              [0.100]
There is a considerable excess over the maximum which necessitates a revision in the resonance
parameter, in the Si ratio only, as the other ratios cannot be changed from its axiomatic base.
                    Px 7              100
                               ( k 1)x1.02249621
                                                     Gs 7 k3 7      4.073E 118            [0.101]
Therefore the impedance Si is corrected for resonance and is a final proof that during
transmigration the resonance must be broken but instead of making an arbitrary choice of the Rs
factor, the equation of balance yields 1.02249621 as the correct rate when maximum stress levels
are reached in the coherent state. The modified Si value is:
                                             100
                                 Si1 k 1 1.02249621     376.2676                       [0.102]
The value of the maximum electric field permittivity as 1/Cc and the magnetic field
permeability as 1/Ce is:
                          max 8.96E 12........... max 1.268E 6                             [0.103]
Since CL is used in Physics instead of the axiomatic C, applying the correction Fc gives the
measured values:
                      max/Fc 8.854E 12..... max/Fc 1.25663E 6                              [0.104]
             Therefore the nuclear domain has the highest level of 118 orders of interactively
stressed states that increase the intensity of Gs and Si as the constants that change the interactive
stresses from simultaneous to resonant state. It also provides the maximum coherent potential for
the three modes of stress as the density Dp, Pd and Dm for the Mps, PM and Mee particulate
states respectively. Hence there is only one potential source for all the three accelerative stress
transmigration characteristics as gravitation when stress density changes as mass; electromagnetic
when flux density varies as charge; accelerative transmigration when interactive count rates vary.
There are two transition stages. Firstly, when the simultaneous states stress density as mass,
changes to a resonant state stress as flux density and vice versa, by altering its coherent symmetry
to attain resonance, it has 2 modes of change. When expanding, Tc is the constant that breaks
the coherent symmetry. In the reverse mode of compression, Tc is modified by Ke=7/k-1 but
logarithmically as:
                 Tcn Tc k7 1          5.6398.......Tcne 101/5.6398 1.50422247              [0.105]

28
                 Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
             Tc and Tcne have extremely great relevance to the Pho state balance at every level.
Tcne affects Cosmological and Nuclear states with equal validity. The maximum compressed
density Dp at minimum relative volume Lp3 of the Mps mass and the maximum expanded
relative volume RU3 at minimum density DD of the MU mass, provide a ratio of the extreme
limits. The median resonant density Pd and volume Rp3 has a dual but balanced relationship
to the ratio of the maximum and minimum extreme limits that provides a control to keep the
Pho state perpetually in dynamic balance, through Tcne. The Mps, Dp, Lp 3,PM, Pd and Rp3
states have been derived through rigorous axiomatic logic above but MU is the overall mass of the
Universe, DD is the critical space stress density and RU3is the relative volumetric state of the
Universal boundary. Since the latter are connected, through proportionate ratios to the former
group, its values can be derived using combinatorial mathematics. Using the principle of self-
similarity and scale-invariance the three parameters are derived combinatorially below to establish
the connection to Tnce.
              The ratios of change in the compressive-simultaneous, resonant and expansive-
sequential state respectively are as Crs:
                                                  23
                       Crs       10
                                 KV           1 ( 2/ 5 )
                                                           k7   7.7036516                 [0.106]
The following combinatorial ratios would enable the derivation of all three parameters:

                                       3
                                 Rp        Mps
                       MU        Lp        Crs
                                                    7.817 E 52kgs...OMU                   [0.107]
OMU is the maximum observable mass of the Universe.
                                Rp 3
                       RU
                                Lp 2
                                       Crs       5.99334E 25metres ..ODU                  [0.108]
ODU is the maximum observable distance or radius of the boundary.
          Lp       Mps
DD
          Rp 3     RU
                       Crs      MU
                                RU 3
                                             3.63E 25kgs /cu.m..Critical .density.        [0.109]
The critical volumetric density of interactive stresses in space is the vital parameter that sustains
the Perpetual Harmonic Oscillatory state everywhere in space.
             The time period of the observable distance TT:
                      TT        Gs /DD RU /C 2.02084E 17.sec                                  [0.110]
The observable time period of the stress transmigration boundary is:
                                        TT / yr 6.4E 9                                        [0.111]
RU is the distance that transmigrating stresses can reach with the available potential Ps, on the
basis that the drop in potential per interaction is:
                            1 2 / 5 1/(1 2 /x 3 ) .1055728                                    [0.112]
The ratio of the merged stresses is TT3/TT=TT2 and since the maximum stress intensity in
space is St:
                                        TT 2
                                      .1055728
                                               =3.868E+35=St                              [0.113]
Proof of the above is in fact due to the merged state (Ps /TT) 2 that drops potential resonantly as
                         Ps 2 /( TT 2 /.1055728 )          Rs 1.02040816                  [0.114]



                                                                                                 29
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Therefore the stress quantum or the photon cannot transmigrate further than RU with the stress
density it is accelerated with at source as Ks. The proof lies in the Tnce control of the Ps potential
and PM state as follows:
                              1/3
                        Dp                         Dp1/ 3 DD 2 / 3 Rp 3
                        DD
                                     DD
                                     Pd                   PM
                                                                             Tcne 1.504235    [0.115]
Any change in the three coherent stress density states of Dp, DD and Pd immediately affects
Tcne, the log of which is Tcn, the constant that either makes or breaks coherent symmetry to
transmigrate an accelerative stress quantum. The density of the space is rigorously connected to the
coherent stress density of the nucleus and any unbalance in the Pho state’s resonance, can upset
the perpetual state of balance. In a static volume the logarithmic ratio of volume to area is
3/2=1.5 but the marginally larger Tcne maintains the perpetual dynamic state of the Universe
and the nucleus.

Levitation occurs when 2/3 -1/Tcne = 2/(C^1-x) x =1/532. At 532 RPS lift or floating
occurs.
          The most significant proof of unification is shown below in a
simple comparative form so that it can be seen at a glance. There are four
vital stages of symmetry breaking interfaces in the substratum of space that
loop back to control all of them extremely rigorously through a single
coupling constant that is applied in both the sequential and simultaneous
interactive modes. First is the neutrino to photon transmigration interface
where the parameters 7 Ne and Mly apply. Second is the electron to
neutrino resonant interface of Mep to 7 Ne. Third is the nuclear / electron
boundary, with the resonant to coherent transition interface between PM
and Mep. Fourth is the simultaneous high density interface between MU,
Mps and PM coherent mass states.
                                              7 Ne
                                             MlyC 2
                                                              Tcn          5.6398             [0.116]
                                         k 1 2               2
                             7 Ne
                             Mep          7
                                                       2
                                                       10
                                                                     C
                                                                     Px
                                                                             Tcn     5.6398   [0.117]
                                         7 Mep        10 2
                                          PM           7
                                                                     Tcn     5.6398           [0.118]
The resonant symmetry is broken sequentially in the three states shown above. In the
simultaneous state the coherent state is maintained by a logarithmic change in the coupling
constant Tcn as Tcne.
                                    2
                                                                 1
                             Dp     3
                             DD
                                           PM
                                          Rp3 Dp
                                                            10 Tcn         Tcne 1.504235      [0.119]
                                    1/log(1.50423 )                   5.6398        Tcn
                                            1                                                 [0.120]
                                    10   5..6398
                                                      1.50423 Tcne

          The symmetry shown above is an extraordinary confirmation that
a single law of dynamic interaction operates in the substantial substratum
of space in a self similar, scale-invariant mode based on axiomatic
foundations. This unique feature in the universal manifestation process has
been exposed only because there is only a single parameter of cyclic time
operating in two modes of sequential and simultaneous states. Both modes
30
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
exist in the substantial foundation of space that follows a combinatorial
counting procedure which is rigorous and accurate. The existence of a
simultaneous state of interactive phenomena cannot be detected through
experimental verification but can only be derived through rigorous logic
based on axioms which eliminates uncertainty in formulating a theory.

             The density values above are consequent to the volumetric parameter, which leads to
the derivation of its equality with associated changes at the limiting levels shown above.
                                       MU
                                       Mly
                                               5.8136E 103                                 [0.121]
                                                                     3
                                                        2
                      Klp              1 2       2
                                                      1 Lp                   5.8133E 103             [0.122]
The comparison of maximum stress density as mass of Universe with minimum Mly as a ratio is
slightly larger than Klp, the comparison with the relative volumetric expansion ratio to Lp. The
difference is due to merging of stresses from a resonant to coherent state, where Ke and Tc govern
the ratio and the reduction in stress density as mass is proportional to Kcu:
                                                                         3
                        Kcu        Ke / 1 1/ Tc 1                                1.9924E 4           [0.123]
Applying the correction the ratio maximum to minimum change in the volumetric state is exactly
equal to the merged stress density change in ratio.
                                           MU
                                           Mly
                                                       MU
                                                      MlyKcu
                                                                         Klp 1                       [0.124]
            A similar merging of stresses in the coherent state takes place due to the
synchronisation of the interactions in all three axial directions, where only Ke is involved, as Psr:
                                   Mps                         1 x
                        Psr        PM
                                       Ke 3           Px C 2 k                   6.74E 14            [0.125]
Psr is the unification ratio where mass and charge are at equal states of stress in every cycle.
However, in the reverse process, the sequential addition of stress count densities is limited at the
PM boundary as the Mee or Electron state. The compressive ratio increase is
                                                      1/ 2
                                       3
                                   2                                              1
                         Si
                         Tc
                              Ke                 4
                                                  3            Mee
                                                               Pn
                                                                             1        137.0359893537 [0.126]




The ratio is defined as the fine structure coupling constant in Physics. While there is no clear
cut derivational process in Physics, as shown above it is linked to Si, Tc and Ke to form the
volumetric state. It has the same characteristic gravity field ratio of volumetric stress density
change to flux density change or (L1/L2)3 = (T1/T2)2.
             The accuracy of the above values confirm the axiomatic logic on which Sankhyan
principles are based and precision of numerical values through combinatorial mathematics cannot
be excelled by any other method of calculation.
                   From the foregoing the incontrovertible and
extraordinary proof is given here of the perpetual interaction in space:



                                                                                                          31
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                        Mps        Mps
                      PM( Px )   PM( Px )             Ps Ps
                                                 Rs              1.02040816             [0.127]
                            C 3Gs                       St
         The maximum stress intensity in space is directly due to the
sequential interaction of two adjacent nuclei, each comprising 8 space-
components bound by the Ah gravitational acceleration, in coherent
internal oscillation in the simultaneous state. The unequivocal proof is
confirmed by:
                                 Mps
                                            Tp    5.696 E 44 sec                        [0.128]
                                 St
Tp is equivalent of the impulse interval between two states of stress
densities of compression and expansion in interactive space. The
substratum of space is in perpetual oscillation at maximum stress intensity
within the instant Tp. The stresses transmigrate, due to the perpetual
oscillatory state determined by Rs, in a sequential and expansive mode till
the primary stress level is expended in time TT as:
                          MU
                                  TT        2.02E 17 sec      6.4E9 yrs.                [0.129]
                          St
The subsequent harmonics at the second, third level etc will continue at the
same interval of 6.4 billion years at every lower level of stress intensity to set
its ultimate rate of decay in:
              log( St )
                           118.219.....or .......6.4118.219   2.02E 95Billion. yrs      [0.130]
               log( 2 )

           Therefore the theoretical rate of decay of its resonant state has a
half life of 6.4 billion years, which can extend to 2.02 +95 billion years to
completely expend its stress intensity level St, from the instant the
perpetual interactions in space ceases but that can never be unless the
basic 8 space-components, in a coherent state, are rent asunder.
             The current scientific view that the expansion-contraction cycle will lead to a Big-
Bang has no theoretical validity because the axiomatic derivation in Sankhya, which is self
generated through axiomatic logic that needs no experimental inputs to complete it, shows the
perpetual nature of the phenomenal Universe. There can be no doubt because of the extremely
accurate equality of its derived constants with Physic’s experimental values. It cannot be a
coincidence either. For statistically, that specific method Physics depends on to support its core
hypotheses, it is not possible for every constant in Physics to be matched exactly by Sankhyan
axiomatic derivations by sheer coincidence. The characteristics of space can never change and hence
the components in it are permanent, leading to the classic Vedic phrase Parama Purusha or
Nitya Purusha, for the value of Kx is the Purusha state in Sankhya.
             Recalling that the inward gravitational acceleration Ah, at the Mps surface, reduces
to Pg, at the PM surface, any outward transmigration of stress requires an expansive interactive
state that overcomes the inward force. Therefore Px, which forms the transition resonant state,
must be accelerated simultaneously by the Tcne factor. At the PM level any increase in stress
levels must overcome the Px ratio instantly or logarithmically. The Pz ratio defines the
simultaneous stress intensity increase and Pw as a sequential increase in ratio.


32
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Pz      Px Tcne     97.11994....and ...Pw                  2
                                                                  Px Tcne     86.8667       [0.131]
                                                          1 22
The simultaneous stress potential Ps is modified by Pz and Pw as follows:
                                               Mps
                                           ( PM )( Px )
                                      Mps              Mps
                                                                     1.275                  [0.132]
                                  ( PM )( Px )     ( PM )( Pz )



                                              Mps
                                          ( PM )( Px )
                                      Mps             Mps
                                                                     1.3718                 [0.133]
                                  ( PM )( Px )    ( PM )( Pw )




             Both the Pz and Pw factors are larger than the minimum drop in potential ratio
Pp=1.2749 needed to accelerate a stress quantum into a transmigratory mode. Pz is just
marginally greater than Pp and is equal to the h/Mly ratio for accelerating 7 Ne as Neutrinos.
The Pw state has a large enough potential-drop ratio to accelerate the nucleus, which creates one
Me state and 7 Ne at the boundary. The details are in the relevant chapters. In Physics the Pw
is defined as the W + - boson and the Pz the Z boson.
             There is a conceptual difference in the principle of generating force or accelerative
transfer of stresses between Sankhyan theory and Physics. Balance between high and low density
stresses is maintained by keeping the oscillatory count identical. Interactive stresses transmigrate
always from a higher count rate to a lower one. However, a higher density stress region can have a
lower interactive count rate if many stress counts merge to act as a single unit simultaneously. The
Pn and Pm states are the compressive and expansive displacements of the dense and rigid nuclear
volumetric surface of PM, at a resonant rate C. At the same time the flexible and resonant
boundary at an incremental volume, at a displacement distance ratio of plus k-1, oscillates at the
same rate of C. Here the Me and Mee states act as the compressive and expansive states relative
to the stable state of Mep. It is coupled to the PM state synchronously through resonance at the
Gmr volumetric ratio. Any change in the rate C at both surface levels, initiates stress count
transmigration either way but always towards the lower rate. The Pn and Pm increase or decrease
stress density which is in the simultaneous or merged state. Hence a single interactive count
difference can alter many counts that are merged at that instant. Multiple counts as stress
densities are varied within the coherent state of the PM ensemble. It is a case of one interactive
count varying many counts in the same count cycle as a potential amplification process.
              Multiple stress counts merged together do not ‘weigh’ more but only react on a count
to count basis, because the stresses are only the oscillatory state of the components in space. As
stress densities increase the oscillatory flexibility of components become less and turn rigid, leading
to the concept of the metric elasticity of space. Large bodies of air or water too, behave in exactly
the same way but a broad based scientific bias treats these in a generalised mode where interactive
stress density is treated as pressure and interactive count rate as temperature.
             In the Me and Mee lepton region the displacement is over a k-1 distance ratio and
therefore stresses move sequentially. If the number of stress count, in both forward and reverse
directions, remain equal the balance is kept. But if for example the Pm rate is higher, stresses
will accelerate towards the Mep state and depending on the count-rate above C in the k-1 region,
sequential transmigration begins in that direction. It is a three dimensional or volumetric

                                                                                                   33
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
expansion and contraction process that is transferred to the next component in space. It is an
extraordinary process of converting simultaneous stress density into sequential count numbers in
every cycle and vice versa at the same axiomatic resonant rate of C across a displacement gap
ratio of k-1. Because the components in space maintain a resonant interactive rate at C, higher
rates transmigrate but lower ones get absorbed.
             The stress intensity in space, synonymous with pressure in Physics, is:
                     St C 3Gs Mps /Tp MU /TT 3.868E 35                                  [0.134]
It is highly indicative that the ratios of maximum simultaneous mass to minimum compressive
time and maximum sequential mass to maximum expansive time are equal to St. Unless the
ratio of mass/time-cycle exceeds St there can be no transmigration of stresses and as shown it is
not possible in the regions between the limits. Therefore no gravitational ‘waves’ are possible.
However, light from the Sun, as stress transmigration quanta, has a higher ratio stress count rate
shown above as Fc, which is the reason that it transmigrates outwards. Hence any higher rate of
expanding stress must transmigrate. The constancy of C, the resonant oscillatory rate per cycle is
ensured in the substratum of space as follows:
                                      Kx( Gm ) Tp           Kx( Gm )
                             C                                                             [0.135]
                                          Mps                 St
Hence Mps, as maximum mass, can only reduce. It can then react to increase C, since Kx and
Gm are constants. St has two control modes where MU/TT, as Universal mass and time, is an
extremely long duration mode of 6.4 billion years, which virtually assures constancy of St. Hence
if Mps reduces then Tp must also reduce as St is constant, which instantly brings C back to its
stable level in displacement distance Lp. Hence it is virtually impossible for C to increase as a
part of the Pho state and the action is within the Tp time cycle. Further the process is
bootstrapped as Gs/Tp2 = Dp = Mps/Lp3. It is an extraordinarily instantaneous process
because it introduces a new concept in Physics which in Sankhya is defined as the third order
constraint or damping force. Since Lp is fixed and C cannot increase, Mps can reduce only if Tp
increases. When Tp increases C must reduce and along with it flux, volumetric density and mass
too reduce appropriately. Since it is at the basic level it affects all levels.
              Mathematically Planck length Lp = C Tp depicts a linear equation. But space is
volumetric or three dimensional. The component in space has been shown to Lp 3=C3Tp3 and
therefore when events are dealt with linearly the area aspects becomes submerged or is overlooked.
Then the ratio Lp3/Lp=Lp2=C2Tp2 must also be accounted for when dealing only with linear
aspects as it is hidden as a simultaneously interacting or merged state that acts as a single unit. In
Physics, the experimental approach has been to find a solution without first addressing the
principles involved. Since it is a key issue the display of numerically solved expressions given
below is to enable the understanding of the crossover in logic, between Sankhyan and current
theories, through mere visual inspection. As an example, the correct stress transmigration rate at
the Solar surface is shown as V and Vs as the ratio C/V and Solar mass MS=1.97E+30
and Solar radius=6.98E+8
                                  1
                         Rs Mps
               V         Lp MS
                                      C   4.3627 E 5......Vs         C /V      679.8       [0.136]
Since the stress transmigration rate has reduced to V the time Tp must increase, as a relative
ratio to the merged and undetectable parameter Lp2, as both Lp and Lp3 can be dealt with
explicitly. The expression below gives the ratio of Tp increase to compensate for the reduction of C
to V by the ratio Vs.


34
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                                                             1/2
                                              Lp 2 Tp 2V 2
                                                  Lp   2
                                                                    1.0000010819                              [0.137]
The ratio reflects the increase in time needed to reduce the oscillatory rate of C by merging Tp, Vs
times, which is shown above, relative to Lp2. Any transmigratory stress in the linear direction
must affect the area of each component as the stresses are transferred through colliding interactions
where the cross-section is Lp2. The averaged and overall view in Physics is that it is a velocity
parameter but that cannot be correct in a continuum of high density components where only
stresses can be transferred. In Special Relativity and in Electromagnetic theory the above factor is
interpreted as a contraction in length and increase in time which is calculated through the Lorentz
transformation to justify the change observed experimentally. The solved expression, using V and
C as above, along with a simplified version with Vs is shown as:
                                               V2
                                   1/ 1                    1.0000010819...          1       1
                                                                                                              [0.138]
                                               C2                                          2Vs 2

The Sankhyan transformation shows the logic on which this change comes about and yet its value
is identical to the Lorentz formulation. The fact that it is really dependant on the ratio of change
from C to V simplifies the process of understanding that logic. However, the explanations in SR
and EM theories have been based on a tenuous and construed logic where measuring rods contract
and clocks slow down, due to the lack of understanding in depth of the structure of space. The
apparent reduction in the oscillatory rate of C due to super-positioning of interactive stress counts
on a real component in space with a consequent increase in the time interval has been interpreted
as a contraction in length and a slowing down of clock ticks showing a corresponding increase in
time. It must be emphasised here that the rate C is a constant but merges in compressed or
simultaneously interactive states that give the impression of reduced counts and therefore the
interval of time between two adjacent counts seem to lengthen. The discontinuity in logic is evident
when a linear change in time needs a squared parameter for its correction. As shown, only two
possible simultaneous variations exist as reduction in the rate C with a proportionate increase in
Tp as Lp3 is a constant. Applying it to all three methods makes it clear that Lp 2 is kept
constant.
                        Lp 2        Tp 2V 2
                                                               V2
                1/
                                   Lp 2
                                                    1/ 1
                                                               C2
                                                                         1        1
                                                                                 2Vs 2
                                                                                            1.0000010819      [0.139]


                                          2
                 Lp 2     Tp 2V 2                                    2                      2
                                                               V2
          1/                   2
                                                    1/ 1                     1      1
                                                                                                   1.0000021638 [0.140]
                         Lp                                    C2                  2Vs 2




                                          3
                 Lp 2     Tp 2V 2                                    3                      3
                                                               V2
           1/                  2
                                                    1/ 1                     1      1
                                                                                                   1.0000032458 [0.141]
                         Lp                                    C2                  2Vs 2


The three transforms of 3 orders have relevance and its application is shown in later chapters but
in Physics only the first order formula with V2/C2 ratio is used as the Lorentz transform.
            The foregoing example is a confirmation of the real nature of space. The Newtonian
development of gravitation theory was effective because the interactive states of bodies in space
occurred in the simultaneous and resonant modes where clock time was ineffective. In

                                                                                                                  35
              Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Electrodynamics however, the measurement of time becomes necessary as a part of the dimensional
concept in Physics, from the outer resonant surface of the nucleus that forms the electron or leptons
as a category. In Sankhyan space the leptonic states including the electron are the Pho state
oscillatory boundary where resonant stresses oscillate and transmigrate on the components in
space. The oscillatory excursions shown before as Mep, Me and Mee, at the compressive, neutral
and expansive interactive limits, which do not and cannot occur in the same location and time,
has lead to the concept of orbit and spin. Therefore it cannot be an independent object but is a
quantum of stress in a holographic state supported by the components.
             However, using Sankhyan logic, the problem of the classical radius of the electron, its
boundary distance and its gravitational acceleration that keeps it bound to the nuclear PM state
is given here, with total accuracy and interactive balance, probably for the first time. In principle if
two states with different stress densities as mass remain at the same distance the inward going
acceleration must be equal and opposite. The PM and Mep states that maintain the Pho state
remain at the neutral position in the interactive exchanges. Hence the equation that gives that
solution is:
                                     2                        2
                                               Mep
                      PM
                      Gs
                              2
                             10Rp              Gs
                                                       7
                                                     k 1 Rp
                                                                  Mg 1.72E 9                 [0.142]
Both PM and Me have the same accelerative parameter Mg at the modified value of Rp that
forms the radial boundary of PM. Using the Newtonian expression the equivalence of the both
transmigration rates are as shown as being equal as a force value:
                                         2
                        PM
                        Gs
                                2
                               10Rp
                                             Mep     Mep Mg       1.569E 39                  [0.143]
Therefore both PM and Mep can retain its interactive distance of separation constantly. From
this equivalence the structural details of Mep can be obtained as follows where Dm is volumetric
stress density:
                                              3
                      Dm              7
                                    k 1 Rp
                                                  Mep 1.35 E 17     stressdensity            [0.144]
The radial distance of Mep boundary from its centre is Rm:
                               Rm Rp k7 1 1.8896E 16                                         [0.145]
Its stress transmigration time at its boundary is Tm:
                         Tm       Gs /Dm         Rm / Mg          3.313E 4                   [0.146]
Therefore stress transmigration rate per cycle C is Ct:
                                    Ct TmC 9.8266E 4                                         [0.147]
The potential available for stress transmigration in its Pho state is Stm:
                                 Stm      Ps Dm
                                             h
                                                  Mly 1.00083                                [0.148]
The Dm value is just enough to allow Stm as just one quantum h to transmigrate either way in
its normal state of balance. It is indeed the finest state of balance that has already been confirmed
in Sankhya as the parameter Ls, or the Lambshift in Physic. Since C can only reduce with a
consequent increase in time Tm the density Dm drops (Gs/Tm2=Dm) and volume expands
thereby increasing Stm to initiate transmigration. When C returns to its correct value the Mep
goes back to its coasting state. The Sankhyan derivation of the electron states is simple, balanced
and equates with Physics, especially if Ct is recognised as the Faraday or coulomb constant.
             Further proof that the derivation above is correct is given by the ratio of Pn to Pm.
The differential value is:

36
              Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                   Q Pn Pm Mee( TcSi
                                     ) 2.3E 30 1.295 Mev        [0.149]
The Neutron Pn gains only the fraction Q of Mee as incremental stress density which is equal to
the merged spin angular momentum component of Gmr that keeps both Pm and Mee in the
balanced Pho state . As shown in the derivation of the Pho interactive exchange, Pn is the
compressive part of the cycle or to be correct it is the limit of stress density reached in the oscillatory
PM state and is not a separate particle or independent entity. Similarly Pm is the limit in
decrease in stress density due to expansion of the Pho cycle. Again Me and Mee are similar
changes of displacements due to decreased stress levels through expansion. Because the Mps to PM
coherent oscillatory state is already at the limits of compressive density change, as potential and the
expansive volumetric change limit from Mps to Me states, as charge. Therefore the significant
part of the Mee state Q1 remains in the region between the PM surface and it’s Mep boundary
across the ‘k-1’ gap, in a resonant and undetectable state.
                      Q1      PM Tc
                                 Si
                                                 6.61E 28kgs           370.813Mev         [0.150]
As shown above, Q1 has an undetectable relative mass equivalent of 313.64 Mev, consisting of
PM or Mep interactive stress ratios. It therefore has a compressive stress at the PM surface and
an expanded boundary stress at the Mep surface, both with the same relative value but could
transmigrate either way. In Physics this hidden state is defined as an Up Quark associated with
Pn and a Down Quark with Pm. Since it is in a transition phase (resonant to coherent and vice
versa), its interactions are not countable.
              The expansion of the interactive states of the 8 component-agglomerate in space
follows a logical interactive process that enables the derivation of the ratio of relative expansion
per change in unit incremental volume. It is a constant ratio in Physics which is called the
Boltzman’s constant of change in energy per change in volume defined as a temperature rise.
Volumetric ratio of change sequentially along all three axes per cycle is given in the expression
below in terms of Mly, which is almost identical to Boltzman’s constant:
                                                       3
                                         1
                                   2
                       2
                        6
                                7
                               k 1
                                                 1 2       7 3 C 3 Mly 1.380658e     23         [0.151]
The Pho state expands and contracts volumetrically in a resonant mode that synchronises and
resonantes with 7 volumetric expansions, within the same time that the primary volume expands
by one additional volume over a radial displacement k or 21/3=1.2599. Unless the coherent
state changed over to the resonant state no transmigration of stresses could comence. Hence the the
fractional ratio needed to initiate transmigration is 1+1/72. Applying it allows the axiomatic
derivation of the volumetric ratio of change for each unit increment in displacement equal to the
Centigrade temperature scale in Physics as Tk:
                                             3
                         Tk       23 1             k         k
                                                            72
                                                                 1
                                                                 k
                                                                      273.259688                [0.152]
The measured value in Physics is obtained by deducting the 1/7th. fractional value needed to
obtain a reading or result as Tkex which is the absolute temperature measured in the laboratory:
                              Tkex     Tk
                                        7
                                              hc
                                              Kb
                                                  7 273.15897                          [0.153]
The displacement per unit temperature change involves 7 volumes as a coherent group and the
relative displacement per interactive interval would be:
                                             3
                       T      1/ 2 3 1                 k     k
                                                            72
                                                                     2.904565E 3                [0.154]


                                                                                                       37
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
             It is a transfer in the Pho mode and hence is in two parts as (Pn-PM) and (PM-
Pm), the ratio of which is Gmr that keeps the coherent state in perpetual oscillation resonantly
with its boundary states of (Mep-Me) and (Me-Mee). The Pn state exists always, in a state of
balance which is confirmed by the activity of the electron Mee.
          It has been shown that in substantial space the agglomeration or
binding of 8 components, each volume Vp = Lp3 with the maximum
coherent density, initiated the gravitational acceleration Ah. It led to the
development of the Pho state that kept the substratum of space in perpetual
dynamism. The Pho state provided the interface to convert sequential
interactive stress transmigration as a kinetic phase into a simultaneous
state of merged interactive stresses at higher densities to provide the
negative potential for sustaining gravitational acceleration. Therefore the
entire nuclear state ensemble provided the dynamic ‘potential well’ to
balance two modes of interactive states in perpetual dynamism while
maintaining an interface where sequential time was merged into its
simultaneous counterpart through time independent operation of
tunnelling through this conversion barrier. The existence of this barrier as
an axiomatic process in nature is the deciding proof for the logic of
derivation of the entire process of manifestation as defined in Sankhya. The
resonant separation of the nuclear core PM and its boundary Me by the
factor Ke as (k-1)/7 & 1/k-1 and the ratio of increase in compressive stress
to normal stress is derived below to demonstrate the axiomatic, accurate,
tunnelling state of the Pho region or the potential well.
                                     3                       3
                                1
                               k 1
                                         C   C1 x      k 1
                                                        7
                                                                  1
                                                                 7Ck
                                                                         1                 [0.155]
              In the foregoing the coherent, resonant and transmigratory states were derived from
fundamental derivations based on axioms and yet its precise numerical equivalence values
obtained through experimental verification confirms the logical basis of Sankhyan derivations of
how and why interactive phenomena function in the way it does. In Physics the measurement of
transmigratory phenomena, (essentially electromagnetic in nature) have been accurate and
transparent because it could be quantised due to the existence of an interval time between two
successive interactive events. However, in the coherent and resonant regions, inconsistencies have
cropped up that has compelled Physicists to introduce hypotheses that apparently seem contrary to
the quantum ideas. Further, the inconsistencies grew by several orders of numerical difference that
forced Physics to categorise that region into weak and strong forces. Even then the problem did not
end for, gravity as the so called weakest force seemed to be the link everywhere and in fact clearly
formed the base for all macro phenomena. In short there was no explicit logical connection that
could provide a rational mathematical connection to the operational uniformity of the entire
spectrum of phenomena. But it is not so. There are two major conceptual differences in Physics
that has led to a mathematical and logical dead end which prevents unification.
              The Sankhyan intellectual process based on axioms provides a clear clue to
redirecting Physics to the path of true unification. That clue is already strongly evident in the fact
that electromagnetic phenomena leaves no hidden parameters in the radiant spectrum yet its source
of origin in the inelastic and elastic interactive region hides the entire process. The conceptual
differences lies in the fact that space has identifiable qualities which inexorably leads to the
necessity of understanding the behaviour of the time parameter in a real three dimensional space.
Three dimensional space is compulsorily operated by the three mutually dependant aspects of time


38
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
too. Intellectually and logically time cannot be introduced into the derivation of phenomenon as an
independent and isolated parameter. Because the human concept of time is merely an observable
aspect of changing phenomena whereas real time is an inherent and qualitative factor in a space
that is perpetually dynamic due to specific axiomatic numerical factors that control it. Physics
must reorient its views that time exists or is born because space is and must be perpetually
dynamic. Creating dynamism from a static base needs an external input whereas plurality of
components in freedom leads to dynamism spontaneously at a particular axiomatic ratio.
Sankhyan logic and combinatorial mathematics shows the invincible process.




                                                                                               39
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``




                       INTRODUCTION
                 Background of axiomatic derivation.
     Sankhyakarika, in Sanskrit, is essentially a mathematical
presentation of the scientific cause of phenomenon. Part 1 of this
book contains the entire set of theorems interpreted in a standard
way that would be expected by a scientific reader. The original
Sanskrit version is transliterated and explained in detail in part 2.
While it is the more important section, its real meaning is conveyed
transparently in part one. Part one has been written with the aim of
conveying its scientific meaning, devoid of complexities, in an
easily understandable way. The axiomatic principles, on which
Sankhya is based, do not form a part of the vocabulary used in
Physics and Cosmology today. Considering the typical resistance
the scientific academia displays towards concepts that conflict with
its foundations, the focus of part one is on a wider spectrum of
scientifically minded youth, who will form the backbone of
tomorrow’s Physics. As far as possible, description of phenomena
and its related activities are limited to using commonly accepted
terminologies. Since the entire theory is based on axioms and
interactions are merely counted, the mathematical complexities of
trigonometry, solid geometry, matrix algebra, calculus etc are
eliminated. Moreover, every mathematical aspect is logically
derived from axiomatic principles and no empirical or measured
inputs are needed to initiate or support this theory.
     Part 2 contains a more detailed and rigorous analysis of the
original information in Sanskrit, leading to a complete field theory
that unifies both the field and quantum concepts mathematically,
through one axiomatic law, the Tri-Guna states. The single and
unique ‘Principle of Simultaneity’ defines the process of
simultaneous interactions among a field of elementary components
within any confined environment. Conceptually, it encompasses an
extremely simple principle that detectable time and activity are

40
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
synonymous while stored activity or undetectable time provides the
perpetual potential or rest mass to maintain a dynamic state. The
interactions are maintained continuously through a scale-invariant
process of exchanging energy proportionately without any external
intervention. It is defined as a self-similar process where-in an
interaction can continue perpetually. Stating it differently, when the
interval between neighbouring interactive states reduce to some
minimal value, the entire surface, though acting randomly, gives the
appearance of a synchronous or simultaneously active unit. The
expanding surface of a rubber balloon due to increasing pressure
depicts the simultaneous nature of the moving surface.
     Sankhya theory is difficult to comprehend unless one learns to
assimilate the meaning of the Sutras (or theorems of logic) through
the Siddhi process of meditation, recommended in it. The normal
thinking process involves a sequential mode of assimilating
information that is described in medical terms as a left-brain
activity. The right brain sums up a variety of sequential information
in a simultaneous or parallel mode to derive meaningful
conclusions which motivates the individual to act on it further. The
letters C A T read by the left brain does not become meaningful till
the right brain equates it to the picture of feline pet stored in
memory. Under normal mental states, the parallel summing up
process in an individual is limited to handling only a few facts at a
time or simultaneously. According to the first verse in the Atharva
Veda and Sankhyan theoretical & axiomatic logic, the human
cerebral systems are capable of processing 343 sets of information
simultaneously and still derive meaningful conclusions that could
be verified through combinatorial mathematical procedures.
     The capacity to process information simultaneously allows
one’s mind to analyse dynamic processes in ‘real time’ and
experience it. Attaining proficiency in Siddhi is a dedicated process
that may be outside the ambit of the average individual. Hence the
purpose of part one is to specifically breakdown the logic in a way
that would allow the reader to mentally process such information
sequentially, as our present system of education and mathematical
procedures are primarily focused on a serial ‘cause & effect’ mode
of cerebral operation.
     The algorithm developed through combinatorial mathematics,
based on the rules of self similar interactions in confined domains,

                                                                   41
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
provides the proof for the existence of perpetual harmonic
oscillations or three dimensional vibrations that decay in infinite
time. Self-similar interactive laws lay the rules for sharing
interactive energy simultaneously, within a cycle, such that there is
no loss or decay, which eliminates the need for an external source
to maintain the interactive process. Cause & effect and action &
reaction, interactively exchange potential and kinetic forces in a
way that maintains the energy balance, at every instant. Newtonian
laws defining inertia, momentum and reaction were framed to suit
a concept comprising infinite space and independent time.
Surprisingly, as will be shown later, the same principles support the
Sankhyan concept of a dynamic space continuum comprising
elemental components in a perpetually dynamic state through a
confined environment.
     The logic of adding one elemental cubic component to another
creates a time disparity in the longitudinal direction. Equalising it in
all three directions creates an object of 23 = 8 value. It also includes
the addition of 7 unit components to form a larger scale-invariant
form of an expanded unit within the same time cycle. Within this
simple transformation, all the laws of Physics and Cosmology are
inherent as axiomatic states and therefore in the ensuing
derivations every manifest phenomenal state would be equated
through combinatorial mathematics to the primary eight units
forming the dynamic field unit in the continuum of space.
     The Principle of Simultaneity, based on axiomatic
mathematical laws of self-similarity and scale invariance, identifies
precisely when a field of continuing action turns into a quantum of
unitised activity and similarly when sequential time turns into a
quantum that describes simultaneity. When interactive states act
simultaneously or synchronously the interactive count reduces
locally (recall the clap example) which is the only reason a force is
generated due to the unbalanced count rate in a dynamic field.
     All forces, be it electric, magnetic, thermal, gravitation etc are
simply due to the reduction in interactive count in that locality
from the stable harmonic count rate prevailing in the field around
it. It uniquely defines the point or moment within a cycle when
simultaneous interactions become a sequential process. It identifies
the precise moment and reason when mass (a contained field of
simultaneously interacting stresses emanating from colliding

42
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
components) turns into energy (sequentially interacting
components, the stresses from which transmigrate across the field)
and vice-versa. The unification of the two complementary states as
stated above, leads to resolving the enigma of relativistic
phenomena logically polarising into space-like and time-like
characteristics. It derives the cause of all phenomena, from
gravitation to cosmic states through combinatorial mathematics
using this single principle based on axioms.
     The logic of unification, based on a perpetual source of
oscillatory power in the continuum of space with specific
characteristics, unifies not only Physics and Cosmology but also
aspects of phenomena classified as spiritual, leading to
mathematical concepts of divinity and divine forces. The
unification paradigm eliminates the need for separate theoretical
algorithms, as in Special & General Relativity, Quantum mechanics,
Black-hole physics and other such formulations. Sankhya theory
unifies all Universal phenomena through one axiomatic law. The
fact that a single law (as demonstrated further below) can operate,
at all the apparently diverse levels, emphasises the connectivity
existing in space. It gives credence to the substantial nature of the
universal substratum.
     While the current advanced and accurate mathematical
structure in science is centred on calculus in all its variations, it has
an unbridgeable gap in regions of high density (or where the
infinitesimal displacement interval turns to zero) that could only be
analysed by principles based on simultaneous activity where the
concept of measured time disappears. As a result there is every
possibility that despite the profoundness of Sankhya derivations,
the scientific academia may find it difficult to comprehend its
invincible foundation and may take decades before it finds ready
acceptance.
     The need for ‘Simultaneity’ as a specific principle can be
emphasised with a simple example. The volume of space occupied
by the Earth before it was formed could be treated by sequential or
relativistic mathematics. Once the Earth exists, every point inside
it behaves simultaneously or all the activities inside have the same
time value relative to the space outside it. Yet inside the Earth,
millions of interactive states separated by large distances adjust the
various changing parameters in a way that gives no detectable

                                                                      43
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
evidence to an external observer in space. The cause and effect
based activity-cycles, at every instant, cannot be treated by
sequential or relativistic time relationship but must be based on
quantifying the accumulation and release of interactive space-like
stresses, within each moment, if no reactions are to be externalised.
The truth of the above description can be verified by just observing
a volcanic eruption.
     In Physics there is no algorithm to predict the state of a single
interactive activity inside a coherent volume, whereas sub-particle
physics is replete with formulas to even predict events occurring in
femto-seconds. Sequential phenomena can be derived through a
continuous calculating procedure but simultaneous interactions
need parallel processing of sequential algorithms and if a complete
phenomenological and numerical description of the Universe is to
be obtained then 10E+18 calculators need to be used
simultaneously.
     ‘Sankhyakarika or Sankhyayoga’ is generally understood to be a
philosophical system. However the Sanskrit term Sankhya is
translated as numeration, number, count, logic, reasoning etc. In
the context of its systemic approach, it referred to a process of
numeration, counting, logical structuring or reasoning. Through a
rigorous application of such a process it derived the entire structure
of the manifestation process in the Universe. Since its fundamental
logic is derived from axiomatic statements, it is applicable to every
aspect of natural phenomenon. Its logical validity cannot be
doubted, as every derivation of phenomenon up to the Universal
limit, is just an iterative process of counting interactive events
based on an elemental algorithm, using rigorous and axiomatic
logic.
     Most intellectuals agree that any theory, capable of precisely
deriving the cause of all phenomenal processes, must be radically
different from everything that has been tried in the past history of
organised research. The significant conclusion from our leading
scientific researchers and seekers of truth today is that the
fundamental problem in formulating a unified principle is a
theoretical one, not experimental. The real problem facing
scientists is to intellectually formulate a complete theory whose
predictions could be verified with the vast amount of experimental


44
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
data and experiences validated outside the laboratory, already in our
possession.
     There is no reason to doubt that every researcher seeks a world
in which the cause of all phenomena is explainable in
understandable terms. There would be no greater satisfaction than
to know how, why and when the immense variety of phenomena
occurs. It would give rise to an even greater sense of achievement
if the entire variety of manifestation could be derived through one
principle, law or formulation. Further, the very knowledge, that a
unified paradigm exists, is enough to remove that uncertainty
science, philosophy and religion is burdened with currently.
Unfortunately, historically a trend has been set in motion that the
primary purpose of gaining knowledge of nature was to vandalise
it. Vedic thought, epitomised in Sankhya, focused on gaining
knowledge to harmonise with nature and gain the maximum
benefits already existing in it.
     The logical process of deriving a unified structure eliminates
the polarisation or duality in human understanding, by exposing the
complementarities of apparently opposing concepts, ideas and
definitions. It shows for instance that religion and science are in
search of the same goal of ultimately understanding how the
Universe functions. Though the two goals seem to be at variance
semantically, logically it is just the single search for the ultimate
power that moves this Universe. Hence any unification process in
science cannot be considered complete unless it has a method to
justify holistic and para-psychological events (normally considered
a part of religious activity) that manifest and are experienced by the
public. Understanding the unified structure leads the researcher to
formulate a more effective and precise language for communicating
difficult concepts between the apparently conflicting viewpoints.
     Language, as a means of expressing logical thought processes,
is to be viewed as just a method of codifying a basic activity into
recognisable symbols. Clipping a light or sound source into a
variety of long and short pulses forms a code. Decoding vocalised
codes leads to spoken languages. Changing a monotonous
background like a white paper with a contrasting system of dots
leads to scripted or written language. The letters of the alphabet
mentally decoded through logical rules conveys its conclusions as a
language. Therefore the validity of language is not in question but

                                                                   45
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
the dependability of its arbitrarily structured meanings. On the
other hand numerical codes, structured by a rigorous and logical
framework, make it reliable, like in computer software.
     There are no absolute meanings associated with a set of letters.
The meanings of words are derived by people and its usage over a
period of time established its effectiveness. Languages have the
capacity to describe events and objects in many ways but because
of this very flexibility it lacks precision. Absolute numerical values
on the other hand are precise but lack the flexibility of the former.
However, a numerical ratio combines preciseness and flexibility to
quantify objects and events unequivocally. For instance the ratio
half can be presented numerically in countless ways as 1 by 2 or 50
by 100 and could be made to mean numerous things precisely. The
proof lies in the binary code forming the foundation of computing
theory.
     Though intellectual research may yield many new principles or
mathematical formulations, its universal acceptance is dependent
on seeking external verification or experimental confirmation. That
however does not increase the confidence level that such a theory
could indeed be correct. On the contrary, if the formulations and
derivations are either based on or lead to axioms the theory
becomes readily acceptable. Axioms are obvious or transparent
facts that need no verification or its premises cannot be disproved.
For instance the statement that ‘one plus one is two’ is a perfect
axiom based on the accepted meanings of the terms used. It cannot
be disproved unless one doubts its semantic structure. Hence if for
example a theoretical derivation leads to a precise solution in the
form of a ratio as 1 / 2, then regardless of the complexity involved
in processing it mathematically, the proposition must be accepted if
the same ratio is predicted as its solution.
     The concept of time is the most difficult parameter to integrate
into phenomena. Obviously ‘time’ is an observable aspect of
phenomenon which is taking place in space that can be described
economically, only in terms of volumetric, cubic or 3 dimensional
form. Analytical methods using one/two dimensional paradigms
are fraught with hidden errors that cannot be sorted out. Further,
clock time is not measurable or accountable directly. The pointer
on a clock or a pendulum completes a circular set of discrete
moves going back to the starting point, indicating a cycle. In reality

46
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
the scientific concept of time reduces to counting the number of
times a ‘unit’ displacement moves to complete a standard length
like the circumference of a circle. The critical factor here is the
identification of the completion of a cycle. Any measurable or
observable change is associated with duration or time sequence and
its value as a meaningful measure can be derived only after
comparing it with another similar process.
     Basically the concept of ‘time’ is a comparative ratio of two
dynamic displacement activities, with the added proviso that one of
them should conform to some acceptable standard. But an accurate
standard could be established by relating any change in sequence as
an axiomatic ratio to some aspect that does not change. There is a
caveat in the measurement of time. While time can be measured as
a ratio between two changing activities, simultaneous changes too
would indicate the same time ratio or interval. Hence if discrete
units of time are used as a measure of activity it has the built in
error that one cannot infer the total number of simultaneous
activities that have occurred within the same time ratio or interval.
In simultaneous activity the interval separating activities disappear.
However, despite the conceptual confusion, Sankhya uses cyclic
time as the only parameter to define phenomena.
      If an elemental object is to be derived simply and logically, it
must be in the form of a cube that remains constant at every
instant. Two cubes placed longitudinally when compared to its
height give a vector ratio of 1 to 2. The foregoing statement is an
axiomatic derivation because the first interaction can be only with a
similar adjacent unit. Solving the vector ratio gives the constant,
consistent and accurate ratio of change at the very fundamental
level. Counting ratios of such changes as distinct events would
provide the most logical scale invariant and theoretically correct
process. Sankhya derives such a ratio and constructs the entire
gamut of phenomena from it.
     Time is essentially a ratio of two or more activities. For
instance if 10 people clap one after another then 10 claps can be
counted and equated to 10 units of an identified interval. But if the
10 claps occurred simultaneously (or at the same instant, that is
within the time taken by on clap) only one clap could be counted.
Thereby an anomaly is created where the 9 hidden claps vanish and
become unaccountable but indirectly introduces another parameter

                                                                   47
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
like intensity, density, mass or simultaneous number of claps that
are not directly accountable. Therefore, just counting claps is not
enough, for the hidden factor of density, intensity, inertia or mass
has to be integrated into the measuring process through some form
of mathematical comparison in a simultaneous mode. Further it
needs an unequivocal numerical definition to identify when exactly
a close-set sequence of events can be considered as being
simultaneous. While defining space in three dimensions as the
product of length, breadth and height has no built in caveats, time
as the dynamic ratio of length by displacement must be treated
with logic that is able to discriminate between the two modes of
sequential and simultaneous behaviour where interactive counts
vanish by merging. Simultaneous interactions with merged counts
indicate a potential state whereas the same value forms the kinetic
activity in a sequential form.
      In a large group of crowded objects, with a restricted degree of
freedom to move, only interactive stress transmigration would
display cyclic time periods where the activities repeat in the same
way. It’s a fact that two objects cannot crossover in a restricted
environment unless either of them ‘give-way, accommodate or
share space at the same time’. In this situation there is no evidence
of the existence of an external force. The restricted freedom
imposes a constraint if the constituents initiate a change. Though
the objects cannot move away, the stresses caused by the cyclic
activity spreads as a sequence of repetitive actions. A stone thrown
into a pond would create similar ripples that move away in cyclic
fashion in all directions, without moving the water. If the ripples
are close enough and rate of repetition high enough, such a form
acquires the characteristics of a ‘stable’ object despite the fact that
it is composed of ripples moving in water.
      The classification of what is mobile or static depends entirely
on the cyclic interval. It is obvious the ripples form a ring of
simultaneous activity. There is no way to detect, decipher or
mathematically predict whether the simultaneous rings of ripples
turn in a left or right handed direction. The ripples move outward
from a centre of impact, yet form a continuous, circular ring
regardless of the interactive characteristics at the origin of the event
at the centre. While the interval between ripples give a measure, its
height indicates the number of water molecules piled on top of

48
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
each other at any one moment or simultaneously as a potential.
Defining that transition point mathematically unifies the duality
seen in particle-wave phenomenon. In a tank of water nothing
moves unless stirred, yet there is a continuous activity of
propagating the pressure variations in two modes as velocity and
potential difference.
     The treatment of time as an observable, which can be reliably
accounted for, has hidden traps that can lead to misunderstanding
the real nature of phenomenon. Static objects can be counted
reliably but sequential or cyclic activity carries with it the caveat of
hidden simultaneous counts that makes interpretation extremely
difficult. Such a possibility can be exposed only through an
intellectually derived theory, for experimentally it cannot be
detected. It makes it doubly vulnerable when it is realised that all of
science is built up on only counting vibrations as frequency of
energy transmission in the form of electromagnetic waves.
     As an example, a researcher watches a worker, putting groups
of items into each of ten storage units placed in a row. The energy
spent by the worker cannot be evaluated merely by counting the
ten intervals. Only after knowing the number of identified items
existing in each group, can one arrive at the correct value of the
total work done by him. Suppose he moves in a sequence and puts
a number of items simultaneously at every stop. From the
researcher’s observation point, his rate of movement can be
evaluated each time he moves but not when he has stopped. In
reality that person is indeed expending energy through the work he
does at each halt. It can be classed as activity carried out
simultaneously. In fact the halt introduces the concept of a node or
the crest in wavelike phenomena or the moment of impact during a
collision.
     Analysing the ‘scenario’ further, the researcher observers that
the worker moves from the first to the second rack in a certain
time but this time period gets progressively shortened as he
proceeds sequentially. If it is shown that the person was carrying a
stack of 100 objects and laid out 10 at every halt, the researcher
would be able to justify his observation by realising that as the load
of objects decreased he was able to move faster using the same
energy. Viewing his action backward, the researcher would notice
that the person moved quicker towards the end and slowed down

                                                                     49
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
as he approached his starting point. Because the stack of objects
and its associated actions at each halt were hidden, it could only be
calculated by equating the energy balance. There is another hidden
aspect not recognised in the measurement of oscillatory
phenomenon. It is an axiomatic fact that real waves have a saw-
tooth waveform or have a ‘relaxation-oscillator’ pattern of
behaviour. Waves cannot travel in the sense of objects moving
smoothly across a surface but transmigrate, crawl or hop from
point to point or node to node. The problem of evaluating hidden
time as a simultaneous event exists in science.
     Light from a distant stellar body does exactly the same type of
work in reaching the earth. When leaving the stellar source it
carries a heavy stack of photons as simultaneous interactive counts
but at every halt it dishes out a hidden set of counts for a very good
and axiomatic reason. The stack of hidden counts, increase with
distance (photons from distant stars) and delays the delivery.
Hubble discovered the delay but it was interpreted differently, as an
expansion of space. Such a conclusion was likely for two reasons.
The concept of space devoid of substantiality provided no reason
to conclude otherwise. Further, Maxwell’s electromagnetic field
theory showed that photons of light travelled without expending
any energy. But an axiomatic view of phenomena proves that time,
distance and work are synonymous. Photons must expend energy
because it does work for otherwise perpetual motion without
involving energy expenditure would be a common feature in
nature.
     Rigorous logic forbids reliance on concepts that violates
spontaneous intellectual acceptance. Many centuries ago Count
Magdeburg proved that atmospheric air was under pressure by his
famous experiment, which showed his colleagues that even horses
could not pull apart, two metal hemispheres joined by vacuum but
split by itself when the vacuum was destroyed. Even his sceptical
colleagues were then forced to admit that suction was not an
intrinsic phenomenon in nature. All movements and forces are
caused by a difference in pressure or stresses. Pressure can be
caused by continuous or vibratory interactions. Deep inside the
ocean it would take a tremendous force to create a ‘hole’ in it.
While it is illogical and impossible to conceive a really ‘empty’
space, it would be even more difficult to conjecture a void in

50
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
substantial space. The use of the term void in space should be
interpreted as an absence of activity. The restful and coherent
states exhibit static characteristics which can be described as a
location devoid of observable or detectable activity.
     An analogy would explain the meaning of coherence in
oscillatory states. In a room lined up with clocks around its walls,
the observer would hear a cacophony of ticks that could not be
counted. If the clocks are reset to click at exactly the same rate, the
cacophony would reduce to a rhythmic beat but would still not be
countable. Resetting the clocks to start at the same instant and tick
at exactly the same rate, would allow the observer to count the
beats but not the number of clocks that caused it, which represents
the synchronisation of phase and frequency in the coherent state. If
the phase drifts beyond a minimum, such that all the clock ticks are
accommodated within one ticking period, the number of clocks
involved can be estimated by analysing the period of one tick and it
represents the concept of frequency in Physics. If the observer
observes that the number reduces, then he can conclude that many
clocks are ticking simultaneously, but would reduce in twos or 2n
values, if the beats are in step as a harmonic.
     Starting any hypothesis from a conceptual base of ‘nothing’ is
truly the most dangerous and unruly process for it implies that it
need not subscribe to any axiomatic logic. One has the freedom to
invent any process, for after all it has only come out of nothing.
The concept of a substantial space medium would eliminate all
such conundrums in physics, if the analytical mathematical
procedure too is based on realistic concepts. Calculus, geometry of
surfaces and trigonometric concepts cannot resolve problems
mathematically at the boundaries of a real three dimensional space.
Simultaneous processes must be necessarily based on innovative
logarithmic procedures. Only a combinatorial counting process can
unite all these diverse methods used in science today, because real
three dimensional phenomena is modelled on its logic.
     The simplest process is to count, in terms of a unit entity, the
very substance the universal space is made up of. Similarly, science
must substitute a positive set of concepts to replace ideas like
empty space, action at- a-distance, force of attraction, geometry
without objects, fields without sources, energy-less radiation and an
expanding Universe. These are beset with logical conundrums that

                                                                    51
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
undercut the foundations of a rigorous logical derivation.
Contrived mathematical support for such concepts cannot
eliminate instinctive intellectual dissatisfaction. The Sankhyan
concept of depending on axiomatic factors eliminates intellectual
confusion and its consequential resistance to creative derivations.
     Meanings of words established by long usage must be
considered axiomatic, for no word has an absolute reference
associated with it as an intrinsic part of its structure. Then its logic
is easily understood and accepted without the need for extenuating
proof or experimental confirmation. Naming new discoveries with
adhoc nomenclatures leads to seeking definitions devoid of
historical connections that invariably ends up with fuzzy
interpretations. Any theory based on arbitrary or empirical
postulates, as against axioms, is bound to fail when the assumed or
conjectured boundaries in logic are exceeded. Therefore the goal of
a correct theory must be to start from a simple axiomatic relational
base that is mathematically extrapolated to both the maximum and
minimum limits without violating the axiomatic and logical source
relationship. It must then lead to describing and defining natural
phenomena as a consequence of applying permutations and
combinations of its rigorous fundamental logic, in all possible ways.
     The axiomatic process of deriving the cause of phenomenon is
an intellectual one, normally considered an exercise in abstraction.
But derivation from an axiomatic source establishes its connection
to reality, unambiguously. The process of counting, starting from
one, as an elemental object, enables the identification of all the
larger conglomerations in terms of this numerical ratio, devoid of
dimensional complications. Using a ratio of two discrete elemental
states is a comparison of ‘like with like’ that removes the
complications in dimensional bookkeeping and the ensuing
uncertainties in connecting multidimensional concepts in the real
world of three dimensions
     Counting is a repetitive activity. Increasing a count from one to
two involves an activity cycle. It can then be iterated endlessly to
reach the maximum value. Therefore, by correctly defining all the
aspects in the very first cycle needed to reach count two, the
complete set of laws needed to understand how the manifestation
of phenomenon occurs, could be derived. It can then be applied to
all other levels just by iteration. Since only discrete states or forms,

52
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
can be counted as objects, defining its elemental state or form
establishes the first unit count. It then enables all aspects of real
phenomena to be presented accurately and unambiguously, without
dimensional parameters, as mere relative numerical counts of
interactive states.
     The counting operation on an abacus gives a visual example of
the process. Transferring each bead from one end to the other
gives the object count. Transferring each bead at the same rate over
the same distance gives the sequential period count. Transferring a
set-number of beads together within the same period as a single
count displays the simultaneous nature of this action. Hence
observing or detecting a cyclic process must include a method of
identifying the number of units acting simultaneously as a set. Since
a set cannot be counted unless the individual units are separated,
evaluation of such simultaneous sets by comparison is necessary.
Comparison is time dependent and a cyclic process must be
evolved, where the beginning and ending is identified by the same
bead count. Counting is not dependent on the quality of the bead
but only its distinctive state as a stable object.
      The major problem in science is in defining that minimum
distance between objects that categorise it as one or two. If two
units act together, perfectly in step, it is treated as one object but
bonded by some force. However the same type of force can be
created by compression but then space should be defined as
consisting of substantial components. A ‘single’ nucleus turns out
to be composed of many quarks, which in turn comprise gluons
and so on. The inability to separate such particulate states
necessitates the introduction of a compressive force originating
from the outside rather than justifying it as an internally attractive
force.
     The essential principle needed to understand the counting
process is that only a change can be measured but again, only after
it is identified by its discrete, stable and consistent state as an
object. A change may be detected but not quantified. The hands on
a clock provide the medium of change while the dial of the clock
establishes the discrete, stable and consistent relational background.
In an interaction or vibration, the moment of collision or the point
when action is reversed become countable or detectable and are
identified as nodal states where all vibrations act at a point or a

                                                                   53
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
centre. The moment of impact between two objects necessarily
form a static interval, which also logically identifies the smallest
distance associated with it in space and defining this level provides
certainty.
     The ‘point’ in geometry is the smallest object recognised as a
valid component to describe parameters in science. Therefore
defining a real point in terms of a count cycle establishes the
discrete object that can be counted and at the same time provide
the logical numerical connection to a continuum concept as
consisting of a field of points. All changes in a continuum can be
accounted for accurately as it is a contained system. It then
provides the rationale to unify both the field and quantum
concepts through the simple process of counting discrete states of
objects axiomatically composed of points. Any field theory must
necessarily be a description of objects as points behaving in a
continuous mode of action which, turns into a quantum of activity
beyond an identifiable constraint. Further the connection of the
field to its point source establishes its relational characteristics. In
Physics, the lack of a physical connection of the field to its source
in space has created the greatest enigma in science.
     In principle the point as a three dimensional ‘object’ source
provides the correct logical framework for unifying all phenomenal
processes unequivocally. The concept of using single or two
dimensional mathematical artefacts is unreal in a universe that has
length, breath and height as an intrinsic, axiomatic and real
description. Therefore a combinatorial mathematical process of
counting changes in states of objects during an integrated and
countable activity-cycle would provide the correct ansatz in
physics. The process of counting can be applied only to activity
connected with objects or three dimensional states for there is a
caveat in accounting two and single dimensional states shown
below.




                 Line          Area           Cube


54
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
            Fig: The caveat in counting dimensional states.
     The activity of lifting off one unit line, area or cube will take
the same time but both line and area are not real for they don’t
exist in nature. But an abstract presentation of a line, area or cube
on paper, equates all three numerical values identically which hides
the true nature of the activity. Hence the problem of dimensionality
has to be dealt with specifically in a counting process.
     At the elemental level the smallest object or unit could be
defined as a point in space and at the maximum level, the
axiomatically bounded Universe forms the unit in which all the
elemental points exist simultaneously but interact with each other
sequentially. Describing the Universe as consisting of N number of
points does not violate any concept in science. Defining the space
occupied by two such adjacent points acting simultaneously as a
unit count, from one discrete state to another discrete state, covers
all the possible gaps needed to perfect the process of unification
intellectually. The perfect answer lies in defining the point in terms
of a precise numerical relationship that leads axiomatically to a
precise numerical limit of a bounded Universe. The interaction
between two objects or points at the fundamental level would be
no different in principle from those at more complex or denser
levels. Then defining the interaction at the basic level in terms of
simple or elemental counts would provide a standard or constant
base that would be applicable at all other levels.
It is recognised that the ubiquitous phenomenon of gravitation
pervades everything and cannot be shielded or obstructed. The
scientific description is “Gravitation is by far the weakest of the four
interactions. Nevertheless, it is important for macroscopic objects and
over long distances for the following reasons. Gravitational force has,
unlike the strong and weak forces, an infinite range; is the only interaction
that acts universally on all matter; is permanent. It can neither be
absorbed nor transformed.” Sankhya logic has identified this
important aspect of phenomenon at the very first and fundamental
level of theory. It shows that at the elemental level, that by
synchronisation, two sequential interactive events can be made to
act simultaneously or behave as though both were bonded. The
combining of two independent interactive counts reduce the
reactive count to one by super-positioning or synchronising or
acting simultaneously or merging. It is seen as a process of bonding

                                                                          55
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
where the reduction of count is identified as a coupling constant.
In other words every time two active objects combine to act
simultaneously the two activity counts merge to become a single
activity count, thereby losing one count that gets hidden by
synchronising but surfaces as an increase in density count. When
the number of interactions, that were keeping the opposing
interactive elements in balance, on a one to one basis, reduces by
synchronising, the latter drift or gravitate towards the region where
the reaction counts have been lowered by merging and becoming
simultaneous. Electromagnetic and thermal equilibrium depends on
voltage and temperature which are indicators of the potential level
of interactive rates of oscillations as simultaneous stacks of
interactions. Similarly, gravitational acceleration depends on the
coherent state of interactions collectively at rest, which is indicated
by its mass. In this state interactive counts superpose and
‘disappear’ by acting simultaneously thus reducing the count rate,
which is seen as a lower potential state. This simultaneous state of
lowered count rate becomes an absorber of interactive counts.
     The process of synchronising activity in all directions into a
coherent state, reduces the individual interactive counts, which
then constitutes a region of lowered reactive response or a
‘negative potential’, towards which the higher rate of interactions
transmigrate or gravitate. Higher pressures and temperatures drift
towards lower ones for the same reason. It is not a reversible
process. Because energy is counted as quanta, when the count rate
is lowered or made to vanish it is interpreted as a loss, whereas it
need not be so. The counts could just superpose and act
simultaneously as a group. The transition of energy into mass by
the reduction of C2 can be shown to be a case of interactions along
two axes acting exactly in step with the third axis to form a
coherent and centred state, thereby reducing the interactive reactive
count. The foregoing logic eliminates the mystery surrounding
gravitation as a unique or special phenomenon.
     Any measuring process requires a yardstick that is real, remains
constant and dependable. Linear measuring rods unfortunately
carry a hidden error. While every effort has been made in science
to keep the length aspect accurate, constant and dependable, the
breadth and height aspect of the same rod has been completely
neglected. For, the entire spectrum of analytical mathematics is

56
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
strictly confined to using the length aspect totally. Because the
geometry of Reimann and Gauss dealt with surfaces as though they
were real surfaces without a thickness and the theory of tensors
used a single dimension as a real state, its mathematical
extrapolations too were considered real. The hidden depth and
breadth aspect, totally ignored in the accounting process in today’s
physics, has surfaced ultimately in strange forms and in stranger
places. The theory presented here corrects that lacuna, accurately
and logically. Sankhya underlines a fact that constants cannot be
derived arbitrarily but only axiomatically and it must be a ratio. The
first or real constant is the interactive period between two adjacent
components that can be represented as an axiomatic ratio of one
by two.
     Perfect control of any interaction must require three modes of
varying parameters in the correct ratio. That is expansion,
contraction and the reversal of actions, must be carried out
simultaneously or within a cycle that cannot be broken up. It
implies that the activity creating the elements of control must be a
continuous process, which needs the concept of a perpetually
active state to justify it mathematically.
     The most profound aspect of Sankhyan logic is that the
maximum and minimum aspect of any theory can be accurately
derived through the principle of self-similarity in a constrained
environment. As a result, every derivation has at least two modes
of verification. For instance the solution can be verified by a
derivation using the compressive regime within the maximum limit
while a similar process can be carried out using the expansive
regime within its minimum limit. Compressive interactions must
reach a static limit, which when precisely identified, provides a base
for certainty. Since the two modes form a reciprocal, splitting one
of them provides three alternatives. Adding it’s reciprocal but
derived through alternate methods totals it up to six, which can be
represented diagrammatically, as a hexagon with a common centre.
Then 12 radial intercepts emerge, each of which can represent a
scale invariant formulation leading to a central factor that confirms
the verification at unprecedented level of accuracy.               The
correctness of the solution is established if the same value, with
required degree of accuracy, is arrived at through all the twelve
alternative or different equations.

                                                                   57
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
     A complete theory should be capable of predicting all
phenomena so that researchers could seek their goal of
investigation with confidence. There is overwhelming evidence for
the existence of parapsychological phenomena yet scientists have
been forced to go on the defensive for there is no theoretical
leeway in current derivations in Physics to accommodate it.
Sankhya identifies the principle and provides the numerical basis to
calculate the cause of all such phenomena. Events in nature seem
to take place continuously, simultaneously, in real-time and there is
absolutely no evidence for a ‘stop and calculate’ activity that all
human endeavours are compelled to follow. Therefore any
complete theory must derive a mathematical model where in the
action-reaction cycle in an interactive state is self regulating, self
similar and self sufficient, which would totally eliminate the need to
account for time as an independent parameter. It leads to the
principle of accepting certainty as a necessary criterion in
accounting for natural events and uncertainty exists only due to the
inability of obtaining facts that deal with it. Any time delay without
an apparent cause creates the need for inventing new principles,
like the Heisenberg’s principle of uncertainty, which does not exist
as an operating feature in the real world of interactive phenomena.
     There is a glaring error of concept in the process of analysing
and understanding phenomena and science must focus enough
attention on this aspect so that the underlying concept of space is
revised. If a pilot of an aircraft takes evasive action to avoid an
obstruction the inevitable conclusion would be that he saw a
possible accident, analysed and then altered his flight path
deliberately and consciously to make a detour. The sequence of
detection, analysis and correction involves a time-oriented process,
which forms the basics of the principle of control. On the other
hand if a rock is thrown at a target and it deviates significantly from
its course at some point, the unequivocal conclusion would be that
there was a physical impediment in that location which acted
instantly or simultaneously. In the case of the human pilot,
sequential analytical time became a cardinal determinant of the
cause and effect cycle in the control process. In the simplistic case
of the rock it had to be a simultaneous or instantaneous cause &
effect cycle and such a conclusion would not lead to any divergence
of opinion among researchers.

58
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
      The Earth goes around the Sun consistently which implies
that some process of control is involved. Current scientific theory
establishes that light as the medium of communication has a
velocity limit which fixes the time of any type of signal
transmission between Earth and Sun near 500 seconds in a space
considered to be a void. If the Earth’s course is determined by
solar gravitational characteristics then it would take 500 seconds to
initiate a correction and another similar interval for the next
sequential corrective action as has been already established in
interplanetary orbital flights. In the meanwhile the Earth with a
velocity of 30 kms / second would have travelled about 30000 kms
in 1000 seconds without any form of control that had a direct
relevance to the first corrective input. Human intelligence and logic
forbids accepting such a process for even a snail must court
disaster in ‘1000’ seconds. If signal velocity is limited then solar
characteristics can have no direct and immediate bearing on the path
that the Earth follows. Therefore, rigorous logic requires that the
cause of deflection of the Earth, the equivalent of the rock, into its
regulated orbital path must be only due to an interactive cycle that
has a source locally or at the point of deviation. Such a concept
must leave present day physics in a quandary for there is no way to
resurrect a local source of hindrance in a space that is considered a
void.
     Newtonian concept of gravity implied that the sequential
corrective action was instantaneous. It became unacceptable due to
the theoretical limitations placed on signal velocities and led to the
derivation of General Relativity (GR), where the ‘needed
correction’ was made locally through the geodesic ‘infinitesimal
displacement’ as the property of a space that had been proven and
accepted to be a void. The negation of ‘space with properties’ was
doubly confirmed in Special Relativity consequent to the so called
failure of the Michelson Morley experiments. The implication that
Newtonian ‘instantaneous action at distance’ was a ‘logical blunder’
is countered by an equally serious faux-pas in GR that begs the
question “from where and how did the geodesic infinitesimal
displacement and acceleration come from, in a space that is defined
as a void?” Mathematics can be used only to describe reality not
replace it.


                                                                   59
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
     The progress in physics and cosmology has wandered away
from the factual state of the Universe in a bid to solve anomalies
resulting from pursuing unitary logic as opposed to a holistic view
of phenomena. While it seems science is progressing along more
sophisticated paths, it actually is undergoing a process of multiple
divisions in concept because of a lack of a unified foundation. In
Sankhya, super-symmetry, total unification, quantum electro-
dynamics, super-string, quantum gravity and blackhole dynamics as
concepts are all inherent and form an indivisible part of it. Hence
Sankhyan conceptual logic can provide the answers to all the
anomalies in physics. Further, Sankhya exposes new areas of
phenomena totally unknown in current Physics. There can be no
surprises in a perfect theory and it forms an axiom in Vedic
concept.
     A notable aspect of Sankhyan logic is that it’s very first
theorem defines in Sanskrit the qualities needed to establish the
observed dynamism in space, as an axiomatic state.
     “Investigating the triad of interactive stresses shows that such interactive
modes of stresses exist but it would not have been detectable, had it not been for
the existence of the coherent and synchronised - perpetual - dynamic but un-
manifest state (of existence of the substratum of space.)”
     It describes a space that is substantial, real and dynamic, but
due to the coherent state of perpetual harmonic interactions it
remains undetectable, for the observer can only detect changes that
transmigrate or radiate as stresses. Radiation of stress depends on
the transformation of static potential into kinetic acceleration.
Hence the absence of radiation ensures the existence of a
maximum potential. Physics and Cosmology graduated, from a
concept of space described as “static ether” to that of a “dynamic
vacuum”. However, the concept of space in Sankhya can be
defined axiomatically as the “dynamic ether”. Therefore it is
entirely pertinent to emphasise here that every idea, thought, word,
numerical formulations and equations in this book are based on the
concept of perpetual dynamism in a substantial field populated
with identifiable components that exist eternally. The exotic state
considered impossible in Physics is derived and proved to 50
decimal place accuracy, in a number of different ways in later
chapters.


60
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
     A cube can be defined as L3 but a sphere must be equated to
(     L3 in absolute terms. However if an elemental cube or sphere
is compared to larger ones of identical shape, the relative ratio
remains N3 in both cases as number counts. Curvature or a
spherical shape is not an intrinsic property of space but a cubic
shape attains that form as the result of dynamic activity like
rotation or spin. An infinitesimal displacement can never be
‘curved’ but only a sequence can follow the path of an arc. Hence
the transformation hides the cube in the spherical form. While the
cubic form in space can be treated axiomatically as stable, the
spherical shape would disappear when rotation is stopped.
Therefore such transformations involving time must be treated
through explicitly identified logic and not through mechanical
application of equations where simultaneous states of activity
vanish. It will become evident from the derivations of dynamic
states that sustain real phenomena, in the following chapters.
     The classical formula for a spherical volume is 4 r3 3 if r is the
radius. Yet 2 r, which forms a circular distance, if cubed to obtain
its cubic content, results in a difference. If 2 is defined as cyclic
time, as it really is, then the intrinsic meaning of the difference
leads to defining simultaneity in conceptual terms.
           3           3       2 3           2         volumetric.density
                 2 r       2          time       log
         4 r3                    2                      surface.density
     In a spherical shape the two parameters determining the
‘central location’ and ‘radial circumference location’ maintain a
constant distance as radius while completing the cycle. The ‘centre’
remains in the same location N times while the other end of the
radius displaces sequentially the same number of N times in
completing the cycle. The centre, acting simultaneously, merges
with the hidden N-1 count values, while the sequential
displacements remain countable as N. The spherical volume
boundary acts simultaneously with the centre. Hence simultaneous
interactions merge time2 in the simultaneous ratio of log (3/2). This
is an axiomatic approach that gives the same result obtained
through differential calculus but does not expose the principle of
simultaneity. Later on the foregoing factors are derived from
axioms to show that combinatorial mathematics can deal with
simultaneous activity accurately and logically whereas differential

                                                                            61
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
calculus fails in regions where clock time disappears in high density
environments.
     The intrinsic strength of Sankhya is that it creates the logic to
mathematically support the existence of a real, substantial and
dynamic space. It derives the logic and rationale of how and why
phenomena get camouflaged and the process by which it can be
equated with detectable manifestation. The hidden high density
spectrum originates within the nuclear boundary and hence needs a
special mathematical approach which Sankhyan logic provides,
whereas existing mathematical systems deal accurately only with
phenomena outside or up to that limit. It is a well known fact in
Physics that every proven equation needs at least an infinitesimal
displacement interval for it to produce an accurate solution. The
coherent state is a super-symmetric and stable ensemble, which
cannot be defined through any of the equations known and used in
Physics today, for the reason mentioned above. Whereas in
Sankhya, the entire spectrum of 18 orders of coherent states from
the Planck mass to the Nuclear boundary, can be defined precisely
and accurately in terms of total and absolute symmetry through
combinatorial mathematics. The detailed derivation will be shown
in a later chapter and would provide the primary basis for
acceptance of Sankhya as a correct theory if the scientific academia
is truly dedicated to establishing Physics on a factual foundation.
     The reader is cautioned to remember, that the existence of the
state of perpetual dynamism (proven in Sankhya) in a substantial
medium forming the continuum of space, provides the initiative to
change, otherwise it may not be easy to follow the run of rigorous
and axiomatic logic that Sankhya has specifically created to
understand its complete and unified theory. Further, as the maxima
and minima of spatial parameters are axiomatically derived as ratios
and proved by equations, any and every ratio, used to factorise
those limiting values, provides an accurate and meaningful
numerical solution that defines an aspect of real and detectable
phenomena. Stating it another way, it is possible to identify every
location of cubic objects packed inside a large cubic box, with a
specific volume and with specified numbers of cubes that fit
exactly in it. Further, derivation of formulas can be as many as the
number of cubes in it, for every cube has different identification
parameter in a volumetric space. There is no uncertainty as there is

62
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
no space that is not accounted for. Sankhya has derived this theory
based on such logic. Further, the reader is reminded, that the
derivation of an enormous number of factual, precise and accurate
parameters in one book, may make it read like a patent
specification but there is no alternative if facts are to be presented
cogently and consistently.

     Note: The author is compelled to state that scientists are likely
to wonder if the Sankhyan logical scientific structure detailed out
below has any connection with the Physics they deal with normally.
The primary reason would be the introduction of a substantial
medium forming the continuum of space and secondly, due to the
combinatorial mathematical principles used in its derivation that
establishes intellectual connectivity with reality at every instant and
all numerical values are strictly dimensionless ratios. While the
mathematical analytical process in Physics is accurate, the logic of
application to phenomenon is laboured, tenuous, lacking
transparency; but scientists, having come a long way with it, may
find it difficult to mentally break with that habit. The most
important transition for scientists to pay attention would be to the
mathematical concept when coherent states break symmetry to
initiate the radiative process. Planck’s two constants, Boltzman’s
constant, Nuclear charge constant, the fine structure coupling
constant etc. having been derived empirically (in Physics), did not
provide the opportunity to analyse from first principles, the most
important symmetry breaking interval which has created confusion
worse confounded in the hidden spectrum. The serious, open
minded and unbiased researcher in Physics will find literally,
numerous ways to prove the correctness of stable constants that
are applicable to interactive states, in the fundamental continuum
of space. As an aid to comprehending formulations that prove
fundamental theoretical concepts, worked numerical answers are
provided with every formula so that the reader can understand its
significance at a glance. It is another unique and important feature
in combinatorial mathematics that every formulation has a precise
answer as no coefficients are required to balance ratios, unlike
equations in Physics.



                                                                    63
     Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``




64
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                        Axiomatic Concepts.
     Sankhya theoretical logic is based on axioms. The elemental
axiom, as one plus one equals two is iteratively progressed to its
limits, dictated by combinatorial mathematical principles, to cover
the entire gamut of phenomena in the universe. While the details of
the mathematical procedures are given later, the logic leading to
that process is covered in this chapter. Axioms are statements that
are obvious, evident and acceptable at its face value. An axiom
need not be proved for it cannot be disproved. Hence, using
axiomatic concepts to base a theory allows no choice in following
an alternate method. The derivations from axiomatic statements
cannot be disproved, for the very meaning of the words used to
frame it will then have to be questioned. Conceptually any process
of analysis is based on some reliable method of quantification. All
life processes have depended on a numerical counting process to
assess an event or quantity. For instance even animals intuitively
made a decision to fight or flee depending on numbers or size of
opponents.
     Human observation of nature has emphasised the substantial
and discrete characteristics of every phenomenon they experienced
and the simplest and most logical method was to rely on it. Any
and every observer, regardless of the level of literacy, will confirm
the reality of all that is experienced in the living process and hence
becomes an axiom. At the local level objects in its natural state
exhibited no stress, pressure or force unless constrained by events.
It depicted a change, which either continued or stopped over a
period of time. Such varied characteristics made the process of
quantification, by numerical counts, a difficult and uncertain
intellectual procedure. Nevertheless the discrete counting process
had the merit of certainty attached to it, for anyone can count and
verify an analytical procedure.
      Only changes can be observed, detected or measured. A
process of change necessarily involves a period or duration, which
is an intrinsic part of that process. When time is involved in any
operation, work has to be done, only which, can be measured.
Therefore theoretically derived constants will not match
experimentally measured values, because the cost of measuring is a
loss of a quantum of work. Continuous changes can be compared
with some standardised form of change to evaluate an interactive
                                                                   65
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
state. Periodic or cyclic changes can be counted on completion of
the process as cycles. While counting discrete cyclic events in
integer numbers is accurate the detection of the completion of a
cycle is a necessary part of this procedure. The refinement to detect
when exactly two cycles are separated or merged into one depends
on a complex theoretical and mathematical derivation. The
derivation of that cycle must be related to the interactive process
that caused it.
     Interactions occur between objects or real things and it is
impossible to support a concept of such activity in a vacuum or
region that is considered empty. Interacting objects create
vibrations, which in turn produce stresses of various kinds that
transmigrate all around it. The collision between two objects
creates a reaction that separates them and this cyclic process
continues unless it is stopped by some means. During the period
between the collision and expansion there exists a period of
simultaneous activity that is critical to defining the static or
stationary state. In a region where a large number of elemental
objects interact the reactive vibrations are transferred as stresses in
every direction, in various ways.
     The process of detecting an object is an interactive cycle. A
signal like a beam of light collides and rebounds from the object
being measured. Collision is a compressive action and rebounding
is an expansive one and the combination creates a cycle of stress.
The change from compression to expansion is mediated by a
reversal of action and the whole process is described as a vibration
or oscillation. It simultaneously reverses the nature of the stress at
the point of collision, which is a real stationery point relative to the
colliding objects. If the collision is cyclically repetitive the impact
location forms a stationery point that occupies a discrete volume of
space. Time wise the impact duration defines an elemental interval
while the point of space that remains stationery at that moment
equals the volume of space occupied by interactions. Stating it
differently the time interval indicates the cyclic rate of impact or
frequency whereas the space occupied describes the density of the
rate of change of impact. It is an integrated cyclic event that
creates stress in three phases. Time-cycle wise, the compressive
mode is a simultaneous interaction whereas expansive action is a
sequential time cycle. The change from compression to expansion

66
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
is a reversal of action within a comparatively short time. All
interactive cycles follow these three phases. The concept of a force
arises only as a reaction to interactions that are in the state of
regaining the balanced state.
     If this interaction is not influenced by events from outside then
the motivation for these changes must be derived internally. The
only logical way it can be done is to share its internal resources
simultaneously. It can be described as a process of borrowing and
returning within a very small period that can be defined as
simultaneous. While the origin of the principle of uncertainty is due
to this delay during stress reversal, an axiomatic analysis shows that
there is no uncertainty for all factors up to the point where a
sequential period becomes simultaneous can be identified
mathematically. In other words a new principle is needed where the
smallest period can be equated to a simultaneous state. Or it can be
defined as the smallest movement that is considered to be a real
static state.
     If the smallest period is one cycle then borrowing and
returning needs two cycles that must be considered as a
simultaneous event. Since it is not sequential it can be defined as a
product of two identical parameters which can be represented only
as a logarithmic factor of 2 to some base. It becomes an axiomatic
constant to define simultaneity. (The electromagnetic coupling
constant in Physics too is .303 approx. log 2 = .301). The
rebounding period has two phases as an in-going compressive one
and an outgoing expansive stress. In the real world of objects,
simultaneous action needs to be understood from the diagram
given below.



                      Fig: Simultaneous activity.
    Even though the cubes are not exactly in line, its action would
be considered simultaneous if all of them move together as one
unit, provided the deviation from a true match is not greater than a
specific ratio. This interval in space or time forms a critical value.
Even though 4 cubes are there, when it acts simultaneously it
forms a single interactive movement as though performed by a
single cube. It forms 4 interactive counts when each one acts

                                                                   67
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
separately but turns into single count in the simultaneous mode
which gives the impression of three counts having vanished. (Recall
the simultaneous clap example). If four cubes were interacting
sequentially with 4 other cubes at different times, then the four
one-to-one interactions could be counted as a balanced activity.
    Another graphic example is given below to show why
simultaneous interactions in a dynamic space merge and reduce the
reactive counts, which induces ‘gravitation’.




              Fig: Merging counts initiate ‘gravitation’

     The left side shows the ‘one to one’ correspondence of
interactive collisions that maintains the position of the compressive
stress counts in a ‘stationery’ location. The right side shows the
merging of counts at the centre in the entire region due to attaining
a coherent state where all the interactive stress counts act
simultaneously and project a common or unitary centre of action
or response. The twelve internal ‘outgoing’ arrows in the left side
have all merged into the centre having just one ‘direction’ thus
leaving the eleven inward going arrows freedom to move towards
the centre. As the arrows move inwards it gets closer and ‘denser’,
which portrays the significance of why inward acceleration
increases interactive density that attains a ‘centre of mass’ status.
     In a hard collision classified as inelastic, the rebounding or
scattering period would be relatively instantaneous and such an
action could be described as a simultaneous event. The energy
balance would show a shortfall due to the simultaneous state,
because only interactive changes are counted. Hence one count
could hide an infinite number of simultaneous counts. If lmin is the
axiomatic minimum distance and vmax is the axiomatic maximum
displacement rate then
68
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                             lmin
                                     t
                                         min
                                                    (0.156)
                             vmax
tmin must be the smallest interval, for any period less than it, must
be described as a simultaneous period. That is any two (or more)
such intervals would seem to occur at the same time. Or the cause
of two interactions would be calculated as a single event.
    In the Sankhyan concept of space the ratio of two different
lengths in space as l1 and l2 also represents the ratio of their
respective time intervals t1 and t2 for the maximum rate of
displacement is the same in both:
                        l1     cmax t1         t1
                                                      (0.157)
                        l2     cmax t2         t2
     As a result, only interactive time in the simultaneous and
sequential states become the important parameter to define and
describe all phenomena. The Universe can be defined by the
merged states of cyclic time alone.
     The concept of simultaneous events forms the cornerstone of
the logic that equates density with super-posed time of activity.
Since this concept has not been exposed in physics, either implicitly
or directly, an axiomatic example is detailed out below to
demonstrate that it is a real state in natural phenomenon. It will
highlight the urgent need for an algorithm in Physics to solve the
problems hidden in this region.
     The archer’s bow provides a simple but classic model of a
simultaneously interacting state. When bent, the outer surface of
the arch forming the bow expands while the inner one contracts at
the same time or simultaneously, thereby contributing to a stressed
state. Since the expansion and contraction takes place
simultaneously, the mathematical interactive ratio must necessarily
be of a single value for both the opposing activity. Further, the
expansion changes to contraction when crossing the neutral axis of
the material, forming the arch. Hence that ratio must remain the
same or else the arch would deform permanently and the bow
would not spring back or act as an oscillating medium.
     Axiomatically, the crossing over of opposing types of
interactive states through the same location simultaneously,
introduces a new concept defined as the third order damping stress
or force. Conceptually, expansion portrays an incremental time of

                                                                  69
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
the first order while compression acting simultaneously, indicates a
reversal of the former time factor and rises as a second order value.
The crossover interaction consequently forms the product of the
two former rates of change and therefore must react as the third
order constraint.
    Describing the three modes of interactions in terms of time
cycle t and simultaneous incremental time as x:
                                  x                    x2
                (increase)       t : decrease      t

                                 t x x - x 2 x3
                crossover            t       t
                             t   x2

                                   (1 22 ) 1
                                                                tx       x3
               When... x                       ...then...            t
                                      2
                                                            t   x2
    The Sankhyan scale invariant principle of self-similarity,
applicable to confined domains, has a single constant as the
combinatorial mathematical variable x, the golden mean, to solve
the seemingly complex interactive process detailed out above. The
principle, derived through axiomatic logic, will enable the
derivation of key parameters. An alternate method, where the ratio
of compressive and expansive change remains equal at every
subsequent level, would provide the same constant variable.
       1     .5 y                      x3                       1 22 1
                    x..when... y          ...and ..x                          0.618034
     0.5 y   .5 y                       2                         2
     The third method of deriving the same ratio is to analyse the
interactive exchange in a closed cylindrical volume. The addition
and subtraction of the same differential creates the expansive ratio
x, compressive ratio x2 and the simultaneous damping ratio x3 /2,
in a closed volume where the area remains constant.




      x2 = 1/2-y             y=x3 /2                        x =1/2+y


70
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
                 Fig: Self Similar volumetric state

     The self similar principle defines that the ratio of compression
will be x2, while expansion ratio becomes x and the x-x2 = x3
factor will be shared equally as x3/2 to limit change simultaneously.
Recall the bow example. As a result, the different types of stressed-
forces merge into one group or a coherent formation, all of which
act differently at varying levels but simultaneously, internally. The
concept of simultaneity forms a complex of two opposing activities
within the same time period and can be dealt with mathematically
only by simultaneous equations that is not dependant on each
other’s solutions. Since it is a new concept the diagram below
shows the conceptual intricacy at a glance:




                       Fig: Self Similar Ratio.

    The red strip is fixed in the middle of a rigid container as
shown in the top diagram. If that strip has to move left as shown in
the lower section, then the arrow on the right side must expand at
the same time the left arrow contracts. Mathematically there is only
one solution that satisfies it if both expansion and contraction are
to be carried out simultaneously. At least three simultaneous
equations are needed to derive and check the permutations
combinatorially because simultaneity requires the time cycle to be
one or the interval to be zero. The equations are shown below.
Intuitively the problem can be solved by substituting the golden
mean. Recall the bow example.




                                                                  71
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``




     The concept of rest mass in science, defines the coherent form.
Within the coherent state the interactive activity conserves all
parameters. Change in linear or angular momentum in the coherent
state results in changes in phase or resonance, but without radiating
or absorbing energy from external sources. Hence if the coherent
state breaks up it reforms into a coherent state at a different level.
Axiomatically only seven levels are possible after which it goes into
the next order of level.
     Harmonic interactive states can remain in resonant decay over
the longest period when the quantum of compressive and
expansive stresses exchanged are equal thus giving a rate of two.
Being simultaneous the ratio of two has to be dealt with
logarithmically to some standard cyclic base. A self-similar process
remains scale invariant when the oscillatory time cycle has 10 self-
similar interactive states (proof is given below). Coupling constants
in Physics reflect the ratio of loss of interactive counts per cycle
due to merging in the simultaneously interactive state but turns up
as an increase in density, potential or mass that cannot be counted
directly. (Recall the clap example).
     Sankhyan logic identifies quantitatively every stable state
through combinatorial mathematics. The notable aspect is, that
dimensionless numbers as interactive counts per cycle are enough
to define and describe natural phenomenon at every level, without
exception. Moreover, there is again absolutely no need for
empirical inputs of any kind whatsoever. When the internal checks
on principles and accuracy prove correct one can be certain that all
phenomena will work exactly in that way. The same type of
principle applies to every level of phenomena from the galactic
mass to the photon for all are only holographic states of stress,


72
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
resident on the components forming the dynamic continuum of
space.
     When the interval goes below tmin the interactions must occur
in a continuum and the quantised activity disappears. In any
contained volume if the rate of change of displacement is
maximised then t3 forms the limit and identifies the static quantum
in that volume as the third order damping constraint or Todc:
                         l3                      3
                                    3
                                             t
                                                 min
                                                           centre       Todc        1.4
                    vmax
     The principle of simultaneity is based on the Todc constraint
and is derived in Sutra 30 in Sankhya. Conceptually equating the
compressive and expansive stresses as a proportionate factor, leads
to the derivation:
                 l3                 3 3/ 2
                                v     t                balance          unmanifest (1.5)
               tn3/ 2               n n

     The left-hand side of the equation shows that the
compressive, dense state equals the expanded and accelerated form
of space on the right. At an interval less than t assuming l the
distance is real and unchangeable, v3 equals l3 and t vanishes, for
the cubic space has become a rigid, coherent & simultaneous state
of a frozen and inert object in the dense state.
                            3
                        l
                                                                              v 1.6
                                         3        0                     3       3
                            0
                                        vn t n .....then.......l
                        tn
    Any departure from the 3/2 log index initiates the accelerative
exchange of interactive counts and the formula changes to:
                                l3            3 1
                                          v     t           acceleration 1.7
                                tn2           n n

(It reflects the concept behind Kepler’s orbital rule in space and
Einstein’s effort to determine critical space density that defined an
open/flat/closed Universe.)
     It has become a unified, centred state with a count of one or a
unit density.
                                             l3                     n
                   Density                             1                    ratio   (1.8)
                                             v3                     n



                                                                                            73
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
     All higher counts must drift, transmigrate or gravitate towards
it because it is at the lowest interactive count rate. Balance is upset
in a continuum of components when the interactive rates of
adjacent units differ. Gravitational acceleration commences from
that state. The logic is elementary, for two adjacent interactive
states will remain balanced if the count rates are identical but when
it becomes unequal the higher state will migrate towards the lower
one because of the longer interval between interactions. In a
dynamic environment unequal interactive counts initiate
accelerative states.
     A coherent volume L3 can be factored as L2 and L, wherein
the volumetric aspect of space remains a real constant while the
area and length parameters can change in inverse proportion. The
linear parameter can be detected and measured directly whereas the
other two can only be estimated or calculated indirectly. The
coherent volume being a constant the change in linear parameter
alters the area parameter inversely and if velocity is constant then
change in the linear time factor alters the area time factor in inverse
proportion. If a linear time T increases by n then area T2 reduces
by n. The linear change in T has velocity characteristics while the
T2 represents an accelerative change and displays flux density or
force or pressure characteristics. The coherent volume being a
constant, its density too stays constant but as time/distance
increases the flux density reduces confirming the observation that
acceleration reduces with increase in orbital radius. The foregoing
provides a simplistic and logical definition of gravitational
mechanics in a space that has substantial characteristics.
     If the equality is upset, by destroying the coherent state, the
classical gravitation equation emerges as t2 (product of density
and time2) and is a constant of simultaneous activity in Gsankhya,
which will be shown later through axioms to be equal to the
reciprocal of Newton’s Gravity constant:
                      let   l       r   vt .......and .......mass    m

              m   r
                      3         2       2
                            rv ( t )......but ...... t
                                                          2
                                                                G
                                                                    sankhya
                                                                              
But the reciprocal of the Newtonian gravity constant is:
                                                    1
                             Also..... t
                                            2
                                                 Gnewton
                                                         


74
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Rewriting the equation in terms of Newton’s constant Gnewton, then
the classical gravitation equation emerges:
                                                   2
                              mG              rv
                                newton
The gravity constant at unit density reduces to the simultaneous
rate of activity along two axes as shown by the analysis of a
dynamic volumetric space. Because of attaining coherence, the ratio
t2 (or a density increase to log two), becomes hidden or vanishes, as
countable interactions and therefore the interactive states
surrounding that volume drift or accelerate towards its centre
where the interactive response is just one. The description of
gravitational action in Physics, that mass attracts and therefore
other masses accelerate towards that centre is semantically correct
but is not a factual statement defining the activity in the field of
space. The left side of the equation shows the mass value is
reduced by Gn and therefore the interactive flux density at the
surface is also reduced by the same factor which yields v2 as the
ratio (r/t) 2 needed to maintain a balance. Rewriting the formula by
retaining r2 at the surface because it cannot be changed in a ‘solid’
object, the unbalanced factor shows up as an acceleration of
interactive counts towards the centre of that mass as g:
                          3     2   2                        r
                  m   r       gr ( t )......where...... g
                                                            t2
                                              2
                              mG             r g
                                newton
Ratios of interactions in the coherent state are only valid when the
comparisons are made at the same instant or simultaneously
because any variation in t alters g logarithmically. The axiomatic
approach has demonstrated that the fundamental cause of
acceleration or force is only due to super-positioning or merging of
interactive activity that reduces the reactive count and creates an
unbalanced state, in the continuum space. Contrarily such a
reaction is impossible in ‘empty’ space. The value of Gsankhya in
Sankhya is derived axiomatically in the following sections and it
matches Gn, which was derived in Physics empirically, using
measured input parameters. An important point to understand is
the fact, that time as ratio t can be measured or counted by
comparison but not the hidden or merged t2 , for it can only
calculated.

                                                                  75
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
     The start and end of the interactive cycle can be detected only
by the change registered at the end of each cycle. In a large group
of objects the interactive cycle continues as cause & effect and
action & reaction phases. If the compressive increase in stress is
equal to the expansive release no change will be detected. If the
interacting objects are identical then no change can be detected
either as the cause & effect of stress creation and release is of the
same ratio. By the previous definition of simultaneity, when no
change is detected the cyclic period must be equal to or less than
log 2. This definition creates the concept of when exactly a
quantum or a coherent unit is created axiomatically.
     If the interacting objects are not identical, which can happen if
one set of twin objects act together simultaneously, the interactive
count changes to half. The change in object counts per cycle will
alter the characteristics of the cyclic activity according to
proportionate ratios. The process of detection is a measure of
count changes in the interactive-cyclic-activity involving three
phases of change in stress, identified as compressive, rebounding
and expansive. The important point established in detecting and
counting is the need for at least two objects to initiate the
interactive cycle. Next, since detection depends only on a change in
count, the real nature of the point, object or space does not affect
the outcome of the evaluating process. It only needs to retain its
fundamental nature always. Hence the term ‘THAT’ is often used
to identify the components forming space in Vedic science to
emphasise the fact that all manifest phenomena is created from a
base that has different characteristics to it and which is permanent.
     As the concept of combinatorial counting of interactive events
is new, many of its operating principles would form new theorems.
Since only interactions can be counted meaningfully, deriving the
axiomatic limiting period of its cycle enables all cyclic periods to be
counted as dimensionless numerical ratios. The axiomatic limit is
identified as the interval when two objects collide, stop and reverse
to separate. The stopping period is a static limit that can be derived
through the application of the third order limiting constraint rule.
It then leads to the ‘time-indicative’ term simultaneous which has
the meaning of many events happening within the period of a
single event.


76
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
    One can visualise forces from all directions colliding at a point
forming the centre but in Physics just six forces all at right angles
to each other are enough to create the same colliding point at the
centre through a mathematical process of vector resolution.
Combinatorially the same results can be obtained by modelling the
point of collision into a small cube. Hence 6 equations, each
defining a side of the cube, are enough to mathematically obtain
the same results that resolve the sum of many forces from all
directions.
    Therefore if the numerical value of each of the volumetric or
three dimensional objects, involved in the collision, can be derived
as C3 then the value of the ‘limiting simultaneous’ event is the
product of or log 2 value as explained earlier. It’s reciprocal then
gives the axiomatic limit as:
                         object object      c3 c3       c6
                        smallestperiod       one         1
                                       1
                        reciprocal
                                      c6
   Applying the Todc rule then the smallest period and cycle time
must be:
                                  t3                            t
                smallest .cycle      .....and .....cycle.time
                                  c6                            c2
     The numerical value of the smallest cycle depends on the value
of C, which is derived in the appropriate section through axioms.
Activity on the surface of a sphere is simultaneous time wise and
area wise, though not in terms of location. The term sequential
depicts events following one after the other. The term coherence
is used to define many events that happen simultaneously and also
maintain the same physical form and phase relation-ship with a
common centre of activity in space. Coherence in form is broken
when phase-periodic changes occur along the three axial directions
at differing intervals of time or space. Simultaneous activity
changes to sequential process when the interval of time between
adjacent objects or axial directions becomes greater than the
smallest cycle time. Then interactions along two axis fall out of
step, and the event becomes detectable as a process involving
sequential time. Expansion depicts sequential changes in spatial and


                                                                     77
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
time intervals. Shuttling, resonance and oscillation depict periodic
changes in the same location in the same interval.
     The accepted meaning of words from long usage is used to
define and derive numerical values and eliminates the need for
pedagogical definitions. In order to highlight the simplistic and
axiomatic nature of Sankhyan logic, scientific terminology has not
been used here to identify equivalents so as not to cause confusion
in identity but later on the equivalents will be identified. The
Sankhyan concept emphasises that all dynamic states follow a
single interactive law which underlines the fact that intellectual
activity too follows the same law. Therefore the all laws of
phenomena should be intellectually transparent, understandable
and reproducible, which is an axiom in Vedic science.
     The concept of a field is that of an aggregate of elemental
components forming the continuum of space. It aggregates into
objects with characteristics. When such aggregate objects attain an
elemental status for the next level, it in turn behaves like the basic
field. The laws defining both these fields must be the same. There
is an axiomatic limit to the number of such levels, which therefore
identifies the minimum and maximum limits possible. In principle
the minimum volume can be defined as the space existing in the
centre between eight cubes forming a resonant aggregate. Such a
space has six square areas as sides and eight points forming the
corners in the centre while fifty six corners define the form
     When eight cubic objects interact simultaneously it represents a
‘bound’ or ‘frozen’ state, for the interactive count rate reduces by
merging from 8 to one, which induces inward acceleration of
stress. Being simultaneous the reduction takes place logarithmically.
It indicates that the interactive counts along all three axes are in
step or the difference in phase is extremely small or below the
axiomatic level that changes sequential action into a simultaneous
one. Being in step the count numbers vanish or disappear, causing
inward accelerative, gravitating or transmigrating action. Since
counting is possible only on completion of the state of coherence,
only the reduced number count can be detected. Then every count
has a hidden value associated with it and emerges as inertia or mass
in a work / energy balance equation.
     When a coherent state (frozen, ‘solid’ and unified) is broken
and if the two objects still interact synchronously, it is a

78
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
harmonically resonant state of cyclic activity. The completed cycles
can be assessed only after being able to count it as a ratio. If cycles
are not completed, the stress counts merge into the continuum
which is in a coherent state. The merging or absorption represents
a process of decay over an identifiable period of cyclic time. The
onset of an expanding or radiating or trans-migratory movement
cannot be counted but only the changes as discrete differences in
ratio can be assessed. At such discrete locations the super-
positioning of stress-forms create nodes or points that remain in a
stable relationship to its origin. An interaction that cannot be
counted loses significance as it does not have the potential to create
a change and is in the process of getting absorbed or decaying into
the continuum of space.
     Reiterating, when two objects act simultaneously or in step, the
physical gap separating them is very small or both seem to be
bound to each other. In other words bonding is ‘time’ dependent.
Extremely small separation in time or distance is caused by high
compressive or inward going stresses. Cumulative vibrations cause
stresses transmitted from cyclically interacting objects. Therefore
objects, as points in space, can act independently as a continuum or
a field forming a quantum, controlled by the compressive stress
caused by interactive vibrations transmigrating in complex ways.
     The three states of water can be used as an analogy to explain
the previous statement more lucidly. Water vapour remains in an
ever-expanding state, unless it is contained. Its molecules remain
in constant motion in all directions or there is complete freedom to
wander in all three axial directions. As the freedom is reduced
either by a diminishing volume or conversely increasing pressure,
the molecules fall into step or synchronise to act in a simultaneous
mode. When its freedom is reduced severely, many are forced to
interact together, in a simultaneous mode as groups and the
interactive counts merge to vanish. When the space between each
molecule becomes very small it displays fluid characteristics.
     The vanishing energy count emerges as latent heat or hidden
energy content. It is pertinent to point out here that temperature
can be measured but latent heat can only be calculated from an
energy or work equation of balance because it constitutes merged
counts contributing to density of form. Further restrictions
eliminate the flexibility to act in any direction and it attains a rigid

                                                                     79
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
static state as a solid or frozen object. Consequently the interactive
counts reduce, indicating a drop in energy level reflected by a
reduced temperature. But the regrouping into simultaneously
interacting states turns up as latent heat at each level. In dealing
with the molecular state of water, parameters like volume, pressure,
temperature, specific heat, latent heat etc must be brought in to
equate the changes. But in space, counting the interactions in a
cyclic period gives an indicator of the state of stress the
components are in, which enables the derivation of equations of
balance. Here, the concept of counting interactions simplifies
understanding and unifies the calculation procedures to deal with
all phenomena uniformly.
     It may be appropriate to explain here that both the ‘Boltzman
paradox’ and the ‘Ultraviolet catastrophe’ could have been avoided
by understanding the Sankhyan logic that incremental frequencies
were created by merging interactions, which showed an increase in
interactive ‘density’ per cycle, with the consequent change in
specific heat values, both linearly and logarithmically as in
thermodynamic interactions.
     Work and time are related in a specific way in the real world.
Assume a man takes a day to make an object and 100 of these are
needed. There is a choice to make all 100 in one day by employing
100 men. Accounting after the event, indicates that 100 objects
/100 men is at a rate of one a day. Using 200 men cannot reduce
the rate to 2 per day because of a limit in the work cycle but unless
this aspect is known, the derived rate would seem correct. Applying
the work cycle limit indicates that 2 men have been working to
produce one object in one day. As another classic example if 365
cars are manufactured in a year it would be rather naïve to take the
rate of one car per day as factual. Similar anomalies in energy
calculations exist in physics that compels the researcher to draw
wrong conclusions. Even though the Plank’s energy constant has
an extremely small numerical value it hides 17 orders of
interactions or the smallest time interval as t/C2, for reasons spelt
out earlier. The photoelectric effect is a classical example of
nature’s limits on work-cycles. The lack of awareness of this aspect
has surfaced as the ‘dark-matter-energy’ conundrum in a space that
is considered to be empty. The principles of simultaneity and self-
similarity eliminate these caveats.

80
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
     The concept of counting interactions, confine the process of
accounting to merely identifying changes in time, in terms of states
of objects. In that process the object itself becomes only a passive
identifier of its change in state. The beads in the abacus can be
anything but its changes in state either separately or together
influence the count in terms of a discrete quantum. As long as the
associated logic is adhered to rigorously and consistently the
counting process can yield accurate and dependable results.
     Summarising, interactions between objects cause vibratory
stresses in three modes of compressive, transitory and expansive
states, (colliding, rebounding and radiating) which transmigrate
from a higher to a lower count per cycle. The permutations and
combinations of the various states of stresses in both sequential
and simultaneous modes provide numerous combinatorial values in
terms of countable ‘object-states’ that define the spectrum of
manifestation witnessed by the observer. The process of counting
interactive states of objects in a comparative cycle is a
dimensionless one. The only rule in this theory is to add stress
counts in a sequential & time oriented process and to multiply
stress count numbers (logarithmically) when interactions occur
simultaneously within a cycle.
     The interactive stresses arise out of a lack of freedom to move
in a space comprising real objects and thereby eliminate the
anomalous concept of ‘force acting at a distance’. In a space
populated by a continuum of real points nothing can move except
stresses as vibrations caused by interactive states. Since only cyclic
stresses are counted the permutations and combinations become
innumerable. Hence it offers limitless possibilities in investigating
phenomena in space where only one interactive law following self-
similar rules operate at all levels. Therefore the theory derived here
applies to space in its natural state of freedom. As a consequence
both the maximum and minimum limits of space can be derived
precisely, which automatically provides a dual process of checking
its accuracy. The colliding interaction must stop at the meeting
point, thereby identifying the region in which parameters could be
derived with certainty. Hence the first set of derivations is extracted
from the compressive region to define the smallest point in terms
of both time cycle and therefore space volume. As a result of
setting logical limits, it facilitates the mathematical extrapolation of

                                                                     81
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
results easily and accurately, for logically, within a precisely
confined domain any and all ratios have a derivable solution that is
relevant.
     Due to a large value of inward going acceleration the
interactive stress-forms in space become undetectable. Hence
groups of space points interacting simultaneously reduce the count
rate and act as an absorber of stresses or a potential sink. The
important point to note here is that no stresses will transmigrate to
a higher stress-count rate. Changes in temperature and pressure as
interactive stress-counts, transmigrate only towards lower count
rates. The reason is that simultaneous interactions increase the gaps
by superposing or decreasing the number of reactive interactive
states in that region, thus allowing higher rates to drift inward,
merge and equalise. It means that even a higher count-rate-object
can become the absorber, through the process of synchronising,
super-positioning or cohering, the interactions along two or three
axes to act simultaneously. Stating it differently, the interval
between counts become longer, hence oncoming interactions
escape a possible confrontation. Another important and significant
point must be understood when dealing with a substantial space
field and that is activity, energy and work are synonymous with
time. Time hidden is energy, work or activity saved as potential that
could be used later. As a case to point, when steam, in the highly
active state is condensed and frozen into solid ice, activity time
vanishes but is calculated as latent heat which cannot be measured
directly. On expanding it the hidden activity time is released as
work as in thermodynamic cycles applied to engines. It applies to
all phenomena for it is only stresses transmigrating in three states
of compression, transition and expansion. Objects are created by
high compressive stress count rates that support a coherent, rigid
state. Transition states of stress support flexibly bound states.
Expanding stresses eliminate or overcome pressure that causes the
bound state.
     The mechanism of how stress act on objects to move it, can be
explained in terms of vortices. Interactive oscillatory tresses along
all three axis forms a vortex when the time interval between two
axes becomes less than a critical value. Since the activity along all
three axes then becomes identical it attains coherence and
maintains a stable form with an active centre. As a visual aid, the

82
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
tornado or twister follows the same logic in becoming a moving
object with tremendous force that damages so called solid objects.
The vortex transmigrates with characteristics of a three
dimensional object. It is only a holographic state of stress form on
the components in space but due to high occupation number or
density of interactions the ‘solidity’ seems real.
     As explained in the introduction, the concept of space as a
static but substantial entity could not be sustained in Physics for
the observed dynamism had to be contrived through mathematics
that became inoperable in simultaneous domains. The Michelson
Morley experiments were aimed at detecting relative velocities that
did not exist in real space, for only stresses transmigrated in the
form that the observer detected as ‘waves and particles’. The
experimental failure gave credence to the Special Theory of
Relativity (SR) which actually dealt only with the sequential
interactions in the expansive phase of the oscillatory cycle
identified in Sankhya. The superposition of interactions and its
consequent reduction in count during the change from expansive
to compressive regime has been dealt with in SR by using the
Lorentz transform, supported by the concept of shrinking rods and
slowing clocks, to justify the experimentally observed change. It is
important to emphasise that unless an infinitesimal movement is
introduced, the equations in SR lost its significance. As is well
known, differentiating with zero displacement/interval can only
lead to the so called hierarchy disease.
     Further, the sharp conceptual and derivational difference
between GR and SR gave an important clue to a hidden barrier. SR
did not deal with density or mass directly but in GR the sudden
transition to higher density regions needed bringing in concepts not
based on derivation but on equivalence. The Newton’s ‘gravitation
constant G’ was introduced arbitrarily into GR as an equivalent and
not derived. It was further compounded by concepts of
gravitational collapse with densities rising to unanticipated levels.
The Sankhyan concept of stress holograms forming ‘matter’ states
(on the elemental components forming the continuum is space)
with both particulate and wavelike characteristics, eliminated
surprises as it was quite logical to anticipate stress densities and
forms of any level. Further gravitation as a phenomenon in


                                                                  83
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Sankhya is conceptually simplified by equating a real volumetric
state to its parametric states of length and area.
     In fact the Planck density of 94 orders could never be
explained logically or mathematically but for the Sankhyan concept
of coherent states of stress acting in decreasing cyclic intervals.
Hence the Sankhyan concept of a transmigrating holographic stress
vortex with substantial properties, observed as ‘wave-particulate’
states in the continuum of space, avoids the pitfall of supporting a
system based on mendacious logic. Further, acoustic stress in both
fluid and gas mediums follow the same Sankhyan principle. It
would not be out of place to state here that if the fluid medium,
needed for the transmission of acoustical stresses, vanishes into a
void, there would be no option but to bring in GR, SR and Lorentz
based mathematics to understand it. Physics recognises that sound
waves transmigrate without moving the ‘medium of stress
transmission’. In Sankhya the same concept prevails.
     Experiments should have been tailored to detect relative
changes in phase and frequency of the perpetual harmonic
oscillatory state of dynamic space and not relative velocity. If the
Michelson Morley type (M&M) of experiment is conducted again
with the aim of detecting the change in potential as an axial phase
distortion or change in wavelength/frequency/phase-shift, the
error would be eliminated. In the bargain it would also provide the
basis for detecting gravity waves as coherent form ‘rotations’, for
electromagnetic waves are the result of a second order break in the
coherent state of space. For, numerically the gravitation constant
turns up as the ‘electromagnetic charge’ constant but this fact is
hidden by the dimensional classification. The proof already exists,
in Hubble’s and several other cosmologists’ finding, of the red-shift
in wavelength proportionate to distance in deep space. The change
in phase would be logarithmically proportionate to distance and
therefore time too. This aspect is derived in the appropriate section
further on. The misinterpretation of the M & M results created the
proverbial conceptual pendulum to swing to the other extreme and
Physics was compelled to abandon the reality of space to justify an
erroneous interpretation of an important experiment. As a result
Physics and Cosmology has lost its moorings to logic and common
sense.


84
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification``
Note: The foregoing emphasised the need for a paradigm shift in
our intellectual focus, on concepts that science was founded on. In
the next chapter, the definitions are based on mathematical
derivations that cannot be changed as it follows rules or laws
inherent in nature as axioms. In the subsequent chapter the
mathematical derivations lead to more complex phenomenon
based on these axiomatic definitions. Since both chapters consist
of mathematical derivations it could have been combined but the
next one would have lost the status of a definition.




                                                                85
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification

                      Axiomatic Definitions.
                        Combinatorial Mathematics.
     The number one or unit written as 1 has an absolute
significance but a ratio of 1/1 too becomes one. It then has the
flexibility to present a unit ratio as N/N or even         Sequential
addition is a process of adding one count after another or adding
the space (equal to a defined object) to the previous one.
     Numerically it is: 1+1+1+1+1 = 5. Etc.
     However, objects occupying real and dynamic space, one after
the other, would be as shown below. It can be described as having
5 units placed sequentially or longitudinally and constitutes its
length, with the implication that it has remained constant in
volumetric space. It can also be interpreted that a single object has
existed for 5 unit intervals.


                        Fig. Sequential count
    Simultaneous combinations are objects added or aggregated
together at the same time and place. Conventionally, as time is
shown as a horizontal sequence, the diagram below shows
simultaneous placement as a vertical presentation. The
simultaneous aggregation or combination is a multiplicative or
logarithmic process as both the duration and position are one.
Hence, the product of 5 units simultaneously has only a unit value.
    Numerically it is: 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 x 1 = 1.
                      Fig: Simultaneous counts
    Here the five objects are shown together as a simultaneous unit




in one location, at the same time. The place is shown in colour and
the vertical arrangement portrays the simultaneous nature of the
summing up process. Here the significance of density becomes
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
evident. It is the same as 5 objects merged into the same volume at
the same time. Only vibratory stresses could merge and maintain
that form as a hologram. When a change is presented repetitively at
the same location it is ‘seen’ as a stable form
     The significance of simultaneity in a dynamic space is that,
while counting is a sequential process, events occurring together
get hidden or camouflaged. The number above can be interpreted
that 5 units of interactive counts had occupied the same space 5
times where one unit normally existed. It can be also interpreted
that the stress density of that unit of space was 5 times the normal
rate. One can count ten people clapping one after another as ten
claps but if all of them clap together exactly at the same instant,
only one clap will be counted, but the intensity of those ten claps
would be different from the individual levels. It is important to
note that the nine claps vanish only when all the claps start at the
same instant, which is the equivalent of defining the phase angle
between two subsequent events as being zero. Hence any ratio
between two parameters holds that value only at that instant which
forms the simultaneous state. Therefore the 5 simultaneous
combinations could also be represented as the red coloured cube
occupying one unit volume of space but its intensity of occupation
or interactive density would be 5 times the normal unit level. Then
the possibility of equating density, with occupation volume, as a
change in the length, breadth and height aspect of the space it
normally occupies, becomes an axiomatic process. Time or period,
detected as an increase in density can be made proportional to a
volumetric change. Therefore simultaneous states having duration,
interval, time, delay, inertia, mass, density and such aspects are
hidden in its combination.
     The process of addition is time oriented while multiplication
sums up the increments within the same time as the addition of
one unit. Hence in a real life process one object exists in time that
is additive whereas combinations of objects too exist in the same
mode. Therefore a dynamic process of quantification in a three
dimensional reality must derive a process to include both aspects
simultaneously. Both the sequential and simultaneous combinations
can form a series of number counts. The unit incremental series is
formed by adding 1’s to the previous numbers as: 1+1=2,
1+1+1=3, and 1+1+1+1=4, as a sequence of 1’s. It represents the

                                                                  87
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
common numerical sequence as: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 etc.
It also contains the simultaneous number counts, if 2, 3, 4 etc are
taken as a single unit which, cannot be separated. Combinations
can be extracted from the common series as 0+1=1, 1+2=3 ,
3+3=6, 6+4=10, 10+5=15, 15+6=21, 21+7=28, 28+8=36,
36+9=45, 45+10=55 etc. That sequential combinatorial series is
given by
                                   n n2
                             Sn         (0.159)
                                     2
The simultaneous combinatorial series can be formed by adding
the present unit count to the previous or existing unit count, as
follows: -1+1=0, 0+1 = 1, 1+1=2, 2+1=3, 3+2=5, 5+3=8,
8+5=13, 13+8=21, 21+13=34, 34+21=55, etc. shown as Bn
below. The 10th combination in both the sequential and
simultaneous series equals 55. Since the Sn and Bn series coincide at
the tenth sequence, it indicates that a natural time cycle exists
where the sequential increment matches the simultaneous one. It is
a point at which future and past events and external and internal
combinations, compressive and expansive state, exist at the same
level (or incremental ratio), simultaneously.
       Analysing both incremental series leads to a predictable ratio
of combinations of objects. The sequential series increase by the
normal numerical incremental rate of 1, 2, 3 etc. The simultaneous
series increases by the addition of the existing value which in the
very first event is 1+1=2. The value 2 is a simultaneous number
but the next additive value 1 is sequential and hence it must be
added as a vector value, because the incremental time values are
not of the same order. Hence that ratio x is:
                                 1 22 1
                        x                 0.6180334 (0.160)
                                   2

The value of x is the golden mean. The simultaneous combinatorial
series can be derived through Bn:
                                   1
                            Bn       (0.161)
                                  n
                                 x 5
Comparing the two combinatorial series, the ratios between both
show a non-linear relationship in figure “The Combination Well.”


88
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
At n = 10 both ratios equalise while at n=4 the ratio of difference
between the two series maximise. It acts as the turning point where
combined ratios, both inward and outward only increase. The ratio
at n=4 is .30652 and forms the most favourable bonding, coupling
or combining position in a space where both sequential and
simultaneous combinations take place. At n=4 , 2+2 , 2 x 2 and 22
all equal 4 and the ratio .30652 is approximately log 2 thus
indicating that simultaneous states follow the logarithmic process
explained in the earlier chapter. The interactive counts reduce in
simultaneous combinations.
                              1.5
              1.00007

                  1
                                  1
                   n
                 5x
                      2
                n n
                              0.5
                  2


              0.30652             0
                                      0               5            10
                                      1               n            10
                   Fig: The combination well
    The graph below, comparing both the sequential and
                                      100
                88.9977527522


                                  2
                          n n
                              2
                                       50
                              1
                          n
                          x       5



                 0.7236067977             0
                                              0   5           10        15
                                              1           n             11
              Fig: Sequential and simultaneous ratios.
simultaneous series, coincides at the tenth sequence. The
interpretation of this coincidence exposes three aspects that
influence combinatorial functions. Within ten interactions a cycle is
formed where both sequential and simultaneous states combine to
form a coherent state. The sequential increase continues steadily at

                                                                             89
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
an exponential rate but the simultaneous increases at an
accelerative rate, by combining with existing combinations and
overtakes the sequential rate beyond the 10th by a ratio 1+x = 1/x.
     The ratios at B10 and S10 are equal but at B11 it is 89 whereas at
S11 it is 66. The expansion in B series displays a symmetry that has
an important significance in terms of self-similarity and scale
invariance.
          B11 88.998                            1
                      1.6180334 1 0.6180334           (0.162).
          B10 55.0036                       0.6180334
     The significant ratio 1+ x is a sequential increase whereas 1/ x
is a simultaneous one and both are equal at this point. Within
constrained fields only self-similar laws can be applied. The ratio
1+ x defines the sequential increase that is exactly equal to the
simultaneous one at the tenth interactive sequence, thus forming a
cycle. It provides the point at which a coherent interactive rate
equals the expanding phase. Both incremental time (simultaneous
ratio) and incremental space (sequential displacement) equalise at
this point and initiate an unique resonant state. Both types of
incremental rates equalise at this location and provide the unique
self-similar mathematical ratio that forms an infinite series as 1+ x
or 1/ x
                                     xn       1.6180334
                               n 1
     Sequential increase dominates up to the 10th level and the
simultaneous rate becomes predominant later. It indicates that the
increase will be in a coherent form. Up to the 10th the Sn factor
forms combinatorial sequences. Pursuing the scale-invariant and
self similar properties of the golden mean x , the entire sequence
covers the spectrum of interactive ratios found in a coherent state.
The unit one can be divided by the self-similar variable x
combinatorially, to infinite levels.
     Axiomatically the unit one can be factored by the golden mean
to any smaller level in a proportionate and scale invariant way.
                                    2
                           x    x         1
The difference too is represented in the same proportion.
                           x x2 x3                                 (4)
The product and quotient too is proportionate at each level


90
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                           x x2 x3                                 (5)
                           x x2 x                                  (6)
The additive increment is equal to the reciprocal of the
incremental value. It signifies that a sequential or additive increase
in time or ratio is exactly equal to its simultaneous or instantaneous
ratio. Incremented value equals its reciprocal as a ratio, which is a
unique relatioship that simultaneity changes to a sequential process
thus providing the point at which, frequency, phase and instant of
change from compressive to expansive states are all identical in
value. The simultaneous interactions that create stress in the bow
example can be solved using the variable x. The conditions
mentioned ensures the initiation and maintainence of a coherent
state.
                                     1
                          1 x                              (7)
                                     x
The logarithmic or product value similarly maintains the same ratio.
It forms an equation in a binomial form and can also be
represented in a polynomial form.
                                          1
                           (1 x )n                                (8)
                                         xn
Any unit value can be factored to any level accurately and precisely
without any uncertainty. The difference between any two indices is
just one more than larger one. The process is transparent.
                          (1 x)n xn 1                            (9)
                           ( x x 2 )n 1                    (10)
The expanded process follows simple combinatorial methods of
calculating coefficients to any level.
(1 x)n xn xn a1xn 1 a2xn 2 a2x2n 2 a1x2n 1 x2n (11)
The coefficient an can be derived simply by systematically adding
pairs of numbers at each level as shown in Pascal’s triangle.
                                   (1 __ 1)
                                (1 __ 2 __ 1)
                             (1 __ 3 __ 3 __ 1)
                            (1 __ 4 __ 6 __ 4 __ 1)
                       (1 __ 5 __ 10 __ 10 __ 5 __ 1)
                   (1 __ 6 __ 15 __ 20 __ 15 __ 6 __ 1 )


                                                                    91
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
     The derivation above represents the range of numerical ratios
possible within a closed domain that can be identified as a unit
state. Coherent states in space can be analysed using these
formulas. It is proportionate and scale invariant at every instant of
time, for only then a region can be termed to be in a coherent state
where super-symmetrical parameters are needed to analyse it.
Each level can be represented by:

          n n2                             n2 n
     An              Bn           n   Cn             F0 0
            2                                2

     Fn Cn Fn 1               Gn Fn Gn 1           H n Gn H n 1   (13)

                                               k
     Fn          Zn 1 and Ank Fn                     Zn

     The graph below shows the coherent state curves upto 20
levels . These curves display the characteristics of Planck’s Black
Body radiation spectrum. The curves represent the simultaneous
interactive states occuring within the period of a single cycle and
indicates the density of coherent interactive states.


                     0.6
           0.472


                     0.4
            Ai n

                     0.2


                 0        0
                              0            5         10      15          20
                              0                       n                  20

           Fig: Density of simultaneous interactive states.

    If the graph is rotated, with its centre at 0, along the x axis, it
represents the coherent stress form of nuclear quark region, black-

92
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
hole, galactic centre, ferromagnetic, superconductive and all other
massive or high density states in a simultaneously interactive mode.
The high density stress countours form a ‘shield’ that provides a
region of very low counts, which provides a ‘sink’ to all higher
count states to gravitate to. Dynamic space retains the form shown
below, which provides the near ‘zero’ activity level towards which
all higher interactive states migrate to and get absorbed.




               Fig: High stress density potential sink

     The interactive density of the core region remains low while at
count 3 the coherent density of interactions rises to a maximum
and falls off gradually. Within confined regions the interactive
states merge or superpose sequentially and become coherent at
discrete intervals or periods when the cycle is completed. A cycle
can merge only if it remains static or the location does not change.
Two opposing interactive displacements in an oscillatory cycle will
meet at the same point repetitively if its rate, distance and time are
identical. It defines the midpoint of the interactive displacement
and forms the centre in a three dimensional interactive state. The
centre will remain stationary even if the displacements are
progressively halved:
                              m
                                 1   1m    1
                                     2
                              n 12
    Therefore in an interaction that increases in oscillatory rate to
any limit, defining the centre in terms of (1/2)m ensures that the
location of the centre does not change despite the increasing rate
of oscillations. The displacement value must necessarily relate to
the numerical value of (1/2)m and that at the very first level of m=1

                                                                   93
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
it will be x/2, which forms quantum displacement ratio of both
linear and spin factors.

                            1 22 1 1
                                              0.309017 (0.163)
                              2    2

    The value of the cycle when sequential increment equalised
with the simultaneous one was shown to be 10 both graphically
and derivatively. Hence the total increment during the first cycle is::
                                    x
                                      10 3.09017
                                    2
     As m increases to n, since the centre remains static, the vector
ratio of the displacements reduce relatively, as:
                                                            2
                                               1    1 An2       An2
                        x
                   A0             A
                        2          n 1                2
       The total increment at the nth cycle, in proportion to (1/2) n
tends to equal as:
                              An         2n         10

     The derivation provides the proof that in confined domains,
the simultaneous interactive cycles axiomatically contains itself in a
circular boundary of ten interactive counts. It is a unique interactive
state where the relationship of centre and surface boundary
maintained a constant relationship simultaneously. The
trigonometric proof is:
                                  2       1
                            cos                    0.809017
                                  10     x x

                                         2
              2 An 2n       2 An 2n                 2 An 2n           2 An 2n
                                         10
     The self containment is ensured by the term (1/2)n because the
interactive process is centred in the same location. Another reason
is that every (1/2)3=1/8 position represents a third order constraint
level of simultaneous interactions in a coherent state which makes
it a self-similar and self organised ensemble. The centre of form,
mass and activity remains firmly in the same location. The
harmonic factorisation of as ratio of a simultaneous cycle formed

94
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
by self similar sequential numerical values provides the axiomatic
base for interactive oscillations, quite surprisingly, new to Physics.
    The term 2 /10 represents the cyclic displacements forming
the self contained coherent cycle in one axial direction and its
reciprocal 10/2 gives the time or cyclic interval in each axial
direction. Therefore the vector constant as an invariant in axial
directions in a three dimensional oscillatory state is:
                     10 2    10 2    10 2
                                          2.7566444771
                     2       2       2
    The ratio forms a limit along each axial direction and its Todc
value provides the constraint to form the coherent state constant
as Px:
                                                      3
                       10 2     10 2           10 2
                Px                                        20.947986
                       2        2              2
     Therefore any and every coherent state in space has a
simultaneous interactive count Px that is hidden or which cannot
be detected. This new ratio forms the coupling constant in the
language of Physics whenever a coherent nuclear state is formed by
simultaneous interactions at a centred location. The perpetual
harmonic oscillator, derived in the relevant chapter, is confined
within this ratio and as the interactive counts increase the density
increases as mass.
     While the Px ratio forms the stable and minimum coherent
state count that vanishes to unity, its actual value is not one but Kx
as derived below. It was shown that the sum of all the stable
centred states comprising (1/2)n equalled one but it did not include
the odd numbered states. The algebraic sum of the odd numbered
states approaches a value called Catalan’s constant, as:
                                    1n
                       Cat                      0.9159656
                                           2
                             n 0 (2 n 1)
    The Cat like is a transcendental number that approaches a
value of 0.9159 at infinite level and is not 1. The modified value of
Cat is Kx, relative to the first interactive increase in the coherent
simultaneous state of 23=8. Its value as the harmonic state constant
Kx, is derived below as:


                                                                      95
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification

                   101 x        21/ 3   102 2
             Kx                                  0.9149879388
                     23         23 1     102

     The first bracketed ratio covers the rate of cyclic expansion
relative to a 23 = 8 count stable form, as a result of third order
constraint formed at the very first interactive level. The continuum
of space changes interactively into the elemental field with a
simultaneous count of 8. The second bracketed ratio shows the
displacement per cycle and the third gives the ratio of reduction in
cyclic time in which the interactions occur. Hence no
simultaneously interacting cycle can have a cycle-time of one
because every cycle goes through the three phases of compression,
expansion and resonance all of which must create a delay, inertia
etc.
     Modifying Px by Kx gives the Universal constant as a ratio, of
the interactive counts per cycle that forms the perpetual harmonic
oscillator in a coherent but un-detectable state. It provides a stable
holographic foundation for a dynamic space with field properties:
                                        Px
                                  Uc       22.8943
                                        Kx
    The Uc, derived from Sankhya is new to Physics, is a Universal
coherent state constant, which influences and affects every
observable, detectable and measurable process in reality. The cyclic
time limit of Kx is a perpetual oscillatory state constant. Further,
the process of detection in the real field of a perpetually dynamic
space affects the perpetual resonance by a factor RS.
                                  102
                           RS          1.0204081632.
                                 102 2

     The RS value is a transcendental ratio and equates the rate of
decay in a perpetual oscillatory state. Later, in the perpetual
oscillatory derivational process the reason for the infinite decay
time will become clear.
     When measurements are made, the stable count value is
registered only on the completion of a cycle of 10 counts. In a
three dimensional environment where all real phenomena occurs,
the measured value of a cycle is 103 =1000. Combining these

96
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
factors allows the derivation of the axiomatic and dynamic molal
volume.
                          Px  1          1
                    Mv                       0.0224363901
                          Kx 103        RS


     The first volumetric change in volume is 2 and the
corresponding radial change is 21/3 = 1.259921=k and the
increment is 0.259921=(k-1). The breakup of the coherent state is
initiated by the incremental value. Setting the increment to a unit
status, the relative radial ratio of the coherent volume, forms the
reciprocal of 1/0.259921 = 3.8473221 and its third order constraint
provides the constant of change KV when a volume doubles.
                                    1
                         KV                56.947628372
                                       3
                               21/ 3 1

     The ratio of the expansion volume constant KV and the
coherent state constant Px provides the density change constant Tk
when the coherent symmetry of the simultaneously interacting state
is broken to initiate the sequential interactive state that
transmigrates as a thermal phenomenon. When the coherent state,
exemplified by the three axial symmetry imposed by the Todc, is
broken, it reduces to simultaneous interactions along two axes
which changes interactive density from mass to that of flux, and
can be classified as a thermal form of interactive stress. While the
distinction is clear in Sankhya, in Physics the Boltzman constant
sets the change-over energy value as different from that of Planck’s
constant.
                                KV
                         Tk             2.718525213
                                Px
     The transcendental number e =2.71828183 as the base of the
natural logarithm is applicable to the concept of simultaneous
interactions. The simultaneous increase in volumetric ratio
maximises at e, whereas in sequential expansion it would certainly
exceed that value.
                                    n
                              1 1       2.7182818285
                                n
    Hence e is an axiomatic model of simultaneously increasing
volumetric interactive state and therefore the coherent state ratio of

                                                                   97
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
change too must be governed by e. Since Px is a coherent state, Tk
is a measure of the thermal potential needed to double the
volumetric interactive rate. The breakup of coherent symmetry
introduces a shift in phase of interactions, resulting in an angular
change in timing cycle. The break in symmetry is created through
changing interactive count rate between 1 and 10 which forms the
cycle. Each step goes through an angular displacement of 1/10th of
a cycle or 1/2x as (cosine (2 /10)) but affects the entire set of
cycles forming the simultaneous state. Using the angular
displacement ratio Kx as a parameter to define radial movement,
the value equal to Tk is derived, at an interactive rate of 2, as
shown below. Its significance is that the Tk value is reached in
both the simultaneous and sequential interactive modes at a
resonant interactive rate of two when doubling its volumetric state.
                                                     2
                                 1            1
                  Tk                                     2.7185252132
                               KxRS           2
                                           2 2 A2

     If there are 100 interactive cycles acting as one, each of those
cycles will go through a phase shift simultaneously of only 1/1000
of a cycle. It can be visualised as a twist in the coherent state
alignment, similar to a straight line, drawn on length of tubing,
twisting when a torque is applied to the pipe.
                   2.8040515073


                           1               2.8
                                 2
                       n
              ( Kx) 2 An 2           rs

             Tk                           2.75



                   2.7130074308 2.7
                                                 0         5            10
                                                 0         n            10
               Fig: The Resonant Thermal Control
    Hence the difference, in numerical terms, will not be equal but
proportionate to the density level, as shown, because it is a change
in potential:


98
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
     The Tk value (blue dashed line) crosses the red phase change
curve at n= 2, which is the resonant interactive rate. It displays an
extremely precise mode of control of the resonant state in two
interactive modes. When the interactive oscillatory rate falls below
2, the reactive Tk potential rises steeply, first because of the
decreasing rate and second the decrease of radial distance increases
the density by the Todc rule as t3. When the interactive rate rises
above 2, the reaction is in the expansive mode, with a reducing flux
density, proportional to expansion, conditioned by cross-section as
t2, which displays a gentle gradient proportional to distance.
     KV             2
          n
          2 An 2        Kx rs
     Px
     0.9694990289
     0.9938195237
     0.9999752007
      1.001518875
     1.0019050912
     1.0020016639
     1.0020258082
     1.0020318444


                  Fig: Interactive Thermal Gradient.
     The limit in rise of the Tk potential at 2.80405 is reached when
the phase angle has maximised to 2 /10 and the displacement
maximised to 1/(x+x) thus conserving total linear/angular
momentum, while the oscillatory rate drops to 1, signifying the
attainment of the coherent state. The oscillatory rate of 1 per cycle
of 10, is phase locked, indicating simultaneity is reached. The
interactions always take place as a linear transmigratory movement
but on breaking coherence, the change in phase angle of the
interactive cycle, gives the impression of spin to the observer.
Hence there are two modes to maintain maximum potential, one
by increasing flux density flow inwards and two by reducing
interaction rate to less than 2. Both these factors happen under
certain conditions that are explained in the chapter on derivation.
     Reiterating, the balanced interactive rate of 2 (320/180
degrees) keeps compression and expansion activities equal in cyclic
time and that rate slows down when the phase angle increases with
increase in density. Similarly, the rate increases above 2 because the
phase angle decreases with density which is decreasing from a
coherent to an expanding flux state. Climbing ‘uphill’ increases the
                                                                   99
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
stored potential, over a ‘shortening base-line or time cycle’, which
stops at the peak , as a simultaneously interacting state. Running
‘downhill’ decreases the flux rate over a ‘lengthening base line’, thus
balancing all three factors.
     The control parameter, as rate of change of phase angle, has
arisen from within the coherent state that has stored the angular
momentum change, resulting from the self similar equality and
balance between linear and radial displacements. The above is due
to the three phases of an interaction, locked into a synchronous
state, by the third order constraint shown below.
              n   0   10
                           KV                      1
              Tkc n
                           Px                          2
                                     n
                                    2    An 2              Kx rs


                                         0.1




                                Tkc n 0.05




                                          0
                                               0              5    10
                                                               n
         Fig: Thermal Well at critical thermal potential Tk.

     The graph above shows, three new significant aspects from
Sankhya, important to the concept of space in Physics. The graph
above is identical to that of the strong force existing between
nucleons. But the derivation here is from axiomatic concepts at the
fundamental level in the continuum of space well before nuclear
states are presumed to exist in Physics. The graph shows the
characteristics of the breakup of coherent states leading to
sequential phenomena.
     The volume constant KV has radial ratio 21/3 = k, at which
distance the coherent and expansive potentials become identical at
a resonant interactive rate of 2 per cycle. Therefore at a relative
displacement interval of 1/k the dip forming the well identifies the
balanced, resonant and relatively static position towards which all
higher count rates must drift, to equalise. The mechanism of how
oscillatory count rates from both the simultaneous (coherent) and

100
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
sequential (expansive) states transmigrate towards the potential
well, can be explained as follows. The coherent state has a number
of counts aligned in the simultaneous state as density and at count
2 it decreases by half, thus initiating the drift to a lower density
state. Thermodynamically, it is equivalent to pressure reduction due
to volume expansion at the same temperature that results in a
change in latent heat or entropy. In the sequentially interactive
states, the higher count rates ‘sees’ the count rate of 2 as a ‘lower’
reaction rate with a longer reaction time and the oscillatory counts
migrate towards it. The rate of 2 is dynamic and low enough to act
as a dynamic absorber of higher count rates. It is similar to thermal
flow from higher to lower temperature states.
     The intrinsic change above can be obtained by dividing t3 by t
to release t2 as the ratio of change from simultaneous to sequential
state. Therefore the value of the perpetual interactive exchange in
space releases Tc as the rate of volume change per cycle, taking t =
10 in terms of cycle counts:
                       Tc Tk t 2    271.8525213193

    The value of Tc is the theoretical ratio of expansion in space in
the totally balanced state of the perpetual harmonic oscillator. The
process of measurement breaks the coherent symmetry and
therefore the correction for the ratio of change is Kt as:
                              2 4
                        Kt        2 1.2982469442
                               7

     Up to the third power the inward transmigrating stresses meet
at a point and form the constraint, while acting as a single unit. The
fourth power provides accelerative displacement for the entire unit
as whole, as an oscillatory movement, twice in a cycle. The ‘fourth
power’ measured value of the absolute rate of change of volume
per cycle, at a resonant rate of 2, is Ta :
                        Ta Tc Kt 273.1507682636
    The measured absolute temperature in the laboratory is Ta but
if measurements based on resonance can be carried out without
breaking coherence, Tc is the correct limit. The entire interactive
process is ‘simultaneous’ and exists in the coherent domain of
space. Recall, that though simultaneous interactions merge and
reduce counts, it causes an inward transmigration of stresses

                                                                  101
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
towards an apparent centre of response in a coherent state.
Similarly the Tc region is in the transition state where merged
interactions along two changes to three axes. Hence it is a negative
stress absorbing state just as coherent mass is exhibits a low count
level of one. Hence the coherent state of space acts as an absorber
of all stress counts in excess of its resonant count state.
     The mechanism of how and why a perpetual harmonic
oscillator sustains its oscillatory rate has been shown through an
exhaustive derivation that also defines a number of factors known
in Physics experimentally. Here the derivation has been conducted
from a basic concept using axiomatic ratios to arrive at the real
nature of space forming the foundation for all phenomena. While
the thermal characteristics of space has been doubly endorsed by
an axiomatic and dimensionless approach, the ultimate proof, for
the holographic nature of all manifestation in a substantial but
dynamic medium as space, is given in the chapter on axiomatic
derivations where the formulation for the perpetual harmonic
oscillator is presented.
     There are three basic resonant oscillatory count rates applicable
to volumetric as S, surface as V and expansion as C. While the
derivation and proof for perpetual oscillatory states will be given in
the next chapter, the resonant oscillatory rates S, V & C are a direct
consequence of continuing dynamism. Since the derivation is based
on simultaneous interactive states, it is based on logarithmic
formulation. It implies that it is a self similar interaction in a
contained field. Resonant interactions taking place in a confined
domain remain in a coherent state unless it is disturbed by an
accelerative displacement. Coherent states retain the full potential
but when it is broken the displacements commence and
transmigration of interactive stresses is initiated proportionate to
the drop in potential values. Substantial components in space
provide the pressure as interactive stresses to maintain coherence.
     The coherent state resonant base count S, for a cycle of 10
interactions is:
                             1
                    S 10 12 12 12 1 23.2287266737

     The sequential state resonant base count per cycle of 10
interactions is V as:

102
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                              1
                      V 10 1 12 1 259.5455351947
                            2


     The linear transmigrating resonant base count per cycle of 10
interactions is C as:
                             2
                     C 10 1 22 2 2.9657596692E+8
                           2


    The constants S, V and C form the base for stable resonant
oscillatory rate needed to sustain three dimensional stresses created
from interactions in space. It is essential to note that the cycle is an
axiomatic state in nature and removes the need to specify a clock
time cycle. S is the resonant oscillatory rate inside a coherent
spherical space and on the Earth it forms the seismic ‘carrier-wave’
transmigration rate, derived theoretically, where Cx is the
compressive factor derived later.
     EarthRadius 2 1
                          1     S V   k     8000...metresvelocity max
         Cx      10 S
     The derivation is based on the assumption that the stresses in
space provides the parameters that control the Earths volume,
which imposes a conclusion that all stellar bodies in a constant
oscillatory state. The maximum transmigratory rate due to an
impulse cannot exceed 8000 metres / second on earth. Later the
terrestrial relationship to stresses in space will be of an electro-
magnetic nature.
     V forms a resonant oscillatory rate at the surface or boundary
thus providing the base for transmigration of acoustic waves that
are controlled by pressure or flux from interactive stresses and is
derived below theoretically, where C1-x is the expansive factor
derived later, which is intimately connected with electromagnetic
phenomena.
                        EarthRadius 2 1       2
                                                      1
                           C1 x     102 V    1 22
     C forms a resonant oscillatory ‘carrier’ rate for expansive or
radiant transmigration of interactive stresses in space. All the three
resonant oscillatory rates are derived as a property of the
substantial continuum of space.

                                                                        103
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
     Simultaneous interactions in a coherent state have a net zero
displacement and it commences only when the axial symmetry of
phase and/or interactive rate differ between axis. In a real field
stresses can only transmigrate but space being considered a void in
Physics, it is seen as the ‘velocity of light’ at a wavelength or
displacement of 1 meter. It is an axiomatic fact that interactive
stresses can only transmigrate ‘through or across’ a medium, as do
interactive acoustic stress through liquid & gas mediums or seismic
stresses through terrestrial mediums.
     Since Tk forms the lowest volumetric oscillatory rate at
resonance, all other transmitted stress wave forms being higher in
sequential and / or simultaneous interactive counts, merge and get
absorbed into the perpetually oscillating state maintained at Tk.
Free space acts as an absorber of volumetric stress counts higher
than Tk. As a corollary, any accelerative interaction must be
initiated by an increase in rate of S, V or C but the increase must
be of a logarithmic ratio so that the potential is increased.
     The field of space around the Sun is conditioned by the
gravitational acceleration caused by the solar mass proportional to
distance. The transmigration rate of interactive electromagnetic
stresses on and around the Earth is modified proportionate to its
distance from the solar centre and therefore cyclic time too varies
accordingly. The transmigration rate for electromagnetic or light
waves at 1 meter acceleration per second is therefore CL as:
                                log(C ) Rs
                          C L 10        Ro 299792458
    Where Rs is the relative radius of the solar boundary and Ro is
the Earth’s orbital relative radius, forming the potential gradient
between source and receiver as:
                 Rs   6.9598E+8      Ro     1.48562955925181E+11
      The CL value is confirmed by experimental measurement
conducted by many and confirmed through laser measurements
experiments of the lunar distance. According to Sankhyan derivation, the
measured value shows a blue shift in frequency consistent with the log value of
distance as CL/C = 1.010845, confirming the ‘real or substantial’ nature of
the field in space. The blue-shift in frequency of light, logarithmically
proportionate to distance, is a constant factor in Sankhya space
and is defined and derived from basics later. It is pertinent to state
that the first verse in the Rig Veda is a numerical acronym giving

104
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
the volume of light formed in one second, where the same CL / C
ratio is introduced in terms of a 365 day solar cycle instead of the
orbital radial ratio. The red-shift observed by Hubble and other
astronomers is relative to CL but would have shown a blue-shift
had it been compared to C. All light received from any stellar
source must have a higher simultaneous count density for it can
only transmigrate to a lower count state through the continuum of
space. The lowest count possible is the resonant state of C which
becomes the absorber at Tk level in the case of sequential
interactions and Tc for simultaneous states. The reason and
mechanism of absorption will be defined and proved
mathematically in the following chapter. There are a number of
anomalous findings in Cosmology on the behaviour of the red-shift
factor in light received from distant galaxies but the derivations in
the appropriate chapter will show that it is to be expected from the
definition of space in this theory.
     The number of interactions in a cycle of 10 interactive counts
is C. It has both compressive and expansive interactive states. It
was shown that the sequential and simultaneous interactive rates
equalised at 1+x = 1/x. Hence C1+x as Cs show an increase in
count density per cycle in the compressive phase. Similarly C1-x as
Ce indicates the decrease in count density within the same cycle or
simultaneously.
    Cs C1 x 5.1074477509E+13           Ce C1 x 1722.1381097982
     The simultaneous cyclic permutations and combinations are
limited to the product and ratio of Cs and Ce. The product of Cs
and Ce entails a colliding interaction and the reciprocal of the
meeting point indicates the fractional period of the simultaneous
interactions involved and the third order damping constraint equals
its cubed value. The universal harmonic state constant Kx forms
the comparative base for all cyclic value for no perpetual harmonic
oscillator can have a unit value as stated in its derivation. The My
ratio forms the universal fundamental unit interval of an interactive
count:
                        Kx        Kx
                My                       1.34462022485257E-51
                              3   C6
                      Cs Ce
   There can be no smaller ratio of a cyclic interval or interactive
count ratio. The figure below gives a conceptual view of the

                                                                 105
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
principle of deriving the Moolaprakriti state or the fundamental
unit of interaction in Sankhya but is new to Physics, as My.




                    Fig: Moolaprakrithi My concept
     The eight cubes interacting simultaneously has a shielded cubic
point as the red cube, which forms the natural colliding limit for all
the stresses acting inwards from all six axial directions
simultaneously. The space separating the two blue colliding cubes
forms the linear ‘length’ of the red cube and forms the smallest or
limiting point. The cube of that spatial distance forms a real point
in a space populated with cubic components. Stresses from six axial
directions meeting at a point will form a cube. The derivation and
definition of the fundamental unit interval of one interactive count
has been carried out through combinatorial mathematical
procedures based on axioms, without any inputs from any source
outside the field of space. As will be shown later, it has cyclic time,
inertia, mass, intensity and other indicators of stress.
     All phenomenal states, manifest or hidden can be counted in
terms of the unit My ratio that defines the field of points which
constitutes the continuum of space. My forms the dimensionless,
self–similar, scale invariant limit of a point forming the minimal
ratio of an interaction to its cyclic time of formation. The
uncertainty in the counting procedure is limited to one My unit in
space, that extends to the magnitude of the Universe. Therefore
the accuracy of derivations can be set to 1 in 1050 decimal places.
Every phenomenal state in the Universe can be defined in terms of
My number count that is dimensionless, scale invariant and self
similar. It is the compressive limit of simultaneous activity that
defines the point in space. Colliding interactive event defines the
spatial limit at the meeting point, which has zero time difference or
forms a simultaneous event.

106
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
      The simultaneous interactive ratio Cs/Ce provides the
crossover numerical value between compressive and expansive
modes of interactions. In the example of the bow, the hidden
domain provided the physical model of simultaneous interactive
states where the compressive and expansive states merged to
provide the third order constraint. When the coherent state is
broken, the third order constraint reduces to the second order
because the t3 factor gets reduced by t to t2 as follows:
                       1 x               2
                Cs    C              x                             10
                                 C                2.9657596692 10
                Ce     1 x
                      C
     However the resonant perpetual oscillatory rate always remains
at 2 as shown in the derivation of Tk parameter. Therefore the
ratio of 2 or k3 and (Cx )2 gives the change in interactive density at
the moment of break in coherence as the gravitational constant
that initiates the acceleration when coherence is broken as
Gsankhya:
                                 2                2
                           Cx            Cx
               Gsankhya                               1.4828798346E+10
                             2               k3
    The reciprocal of Gsankhya or Gs forms the empirically
derived value of Newton’s gravitation constant, after correcting for
the blue-shift as CL / C =1.010845 in electromagnetic wave
(EMW) propagation rate.
                              1     C
                 Gnewton                6.671281904E-11
                           Gsankhya C L
     The dimensional characteristics attain significance if the
electromagnetic wave (EMW) rate is defined as having an
acceleration of 1 metre / sec2 and the oscillatory change of rate
from 1 to 2 has an interactive rate increase equal to a kg of force
per change in unit volume, or a Newton. The derivation of Gs
above is of signal importance, for it shows that Newton’s
gravitation constant varies as the log ratio of distance from its
source, the solar mass that causes the accelerative state.
     As has been shown, the important, core derivations have no
specific relationship to dimensional parameters. The main reason is
that all derivations are arrived at as ratios of interactive counts to
an axiomatic cyclic unit count of 10 which is equivalent to 2 .

                                                                         107
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
Every interactive count rate is only a ratio of two parameters
involving cyclic time and therefore has no dimensional bearing on
the result. The observer is free to set dimensional standards based
on his own choice and experience. The concept of mass, charge
and the resonant balanced state need be defined only in terms of
rates of interaction. There is no doubt that dimensional parameters
enhance calculative procedures but as shown it does not form an
intrinsic property needed to define dynamic phenomenon.
     The definition of mass is a coherent state in which the
interactions are centred by the third order constraint and act
simultaneously as a single unit. The charge is the resonant state
created by the breakup of coherence and synchronised by the
second order constraint. Radiation is expansive transmigration of
interactions with a first order constraint and is accelerative as it.
The constraints are created when interaction counts vanish along
the three, two or single axial directions due to synchronisation &
merging, at identical phase and oscillatory rates. The axiomatic rate
of interactive harmonic oscillations can only be equal to C because
the interactive ratio with an adjacent unit can only be two or half.
      Within the coherent boundary time3 parameters vanish to
emerge as density or mass. Between the coherent boundary and the
radial boundary the time2 parameter vanish to emerge as charge or
flux density. Before coherence is broken, the net displacement
remains at zero for all the oscillatory excursions are contained
within the coherent boundary. However, when coherent symmetry
breaks, the transmigration commences at a rate C and the net
displacement begins to increase, which in Physics is interpreted as a
fall in frequency or an increase in linear displacement ‘density’. In
Sankhya C is the perpetual rate of oscillation and not a velocity but
that aspect is displayed only when progressively-increasing
displacements are created by an accelerative interaction from an
adjacent component.
     The diagram blow will expose the conceptual difference
between Sankhya which derives a single law of manifestation from
the definable continuum of space and that of Physics with a space
that is a void. The simultaneous interactive state is coherent and
hence it does not initiate any displacement because the net internal
oscillatory movement is zero. The oscillations provide the instant
potential to initiate a displacement that is seen as frequency by

108
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
observer. In a scale invariant theory the coherent state diagram
represents an atomic nucleus or a stellar body like the Sun, while C
being a constant the D and T parameter is based on the observer’s
chosen yardstick. When C = D and T =1 the potential state
reaches its minimum displacement distance becomes a maximum.
When T decreases proportional to harmonics of 2n the interactive
density increases which is detected as a rise in frequency by the
observer.

          Simultaneous.          C = Oscillatory Rate per cycle
          C=D/T.                 D= Displacement distance
          T=1/C                  T = Cycle time as ratio
          D=1                    Brf = {1+[(k-1)/(2       (k-1)]}
          Coherent state
                                      Sequential . C= D/T
                                      C=D, T=1



                                                   Resonant
                                                   C=D/2T
                                                   Harmonics=2n

                               Break in Coherence. Start of D.
                               C=D/T. D=Brf. T=Brf/C


       Fig: Stress Transmigration principle. (Light velocity)

     The most important factor Brf, (derived axiomatically in page
112) determines exactly the moment when detectable displacement
commences at the highest interactive density or detectable
frequency, at which point the equivalent of Planck’s constant
emerges as the minimum cyclic displacement that differentiates the
coherent state from the radiative one. Physicists must appreciate
the fact that a quantum is not a natural phenomenal state of matter
in a space continuum, but it is only an indicator of the change from
a simultaneous interactive state to that of a sequential or

                                                                 109
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
transmigratory state of stresses. At less than the Br interval the
state is deemed to be in a simultaneous state of the continuum of
space. When Br is exceeded and sequential time begins it
constitutes a real displacement that initiates transmigration. Hence
at time interval ratios less than Br the interactive stress in space act
as continuous ‘wave’ giving the characteristics of a continuum. It
will be shown in a later chapter that all stellar and planetary body
density is equal to (1 /(Brf-1))2 = 2.2766641909E+4. Stellar
planetary bodies are not ‘solid’ as conjectured but are an
agglomeration of space components in the holographic state and
the solidity of the body surface is displayed when the oscillatory
interval is less than the Br ratio. As a result, the minor planetary
body ‘solid surface’ radii are as observed but the Sun and major
planetary body radii as observed are that of stratospheric or outer
envelope boundary. The latter groups real ‘solid surface’ boundary
are at a density corresponding to 2.276 E +4 .
     As shown above concepts of self-similarity, scale invariance
and relativity requires that all parameters should be derived only as
ratios. Hence time must also be dealt with as an associated value.
Frequency is ‘second’ dependant but time cycle is based on self
similar interactive limit of 2 (2nAn20) and can be applied to all
scale levels. The constant oscillatory rate C determines the time
period as a ratio of displacement caused by an accelerative
interaction. On application of the revised concept the simultaneous
merging of displacements show that frequency becomes an
interpretive consequence of establishing the second as an
independent unit of time. There is no direct equivalent of the
‘second’ in natural phenomenon and hence cannot be used as a
yardstick in a three dimensional manifestation in the continuum of
space, comprising real components.
     The explanation given above is likely to set Schrodinger’s cats
among the relativistic pigeons. It may be interpreted as reverting
back to an ‘ether’ concept but as explained in the introduction and
proved later, the components in space are perpetually dynamic and
therefore transcend the need for the derivation of a theoretical
source with potential characteristics, like Newtonian gravitation,
Einstein’s twin relativity principles or Maxwell’s field formulations.
Dynamic three dimensional interactive states among any two
components in the continuum of space has it all as an axiomatic

110
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
state that even human intelligence cannot negate. Such an
axiomatic presence gives credence to religious concepts of divinity
and divine forces too. Axiomatic numerical ratios arise out of
combinatorial principles as a natural consequence of a numerical
sequence. It is indeed the source of Physics.
     Beyond the resonant boundary at twice the radial distance (or
eight volumetric states) the interactive stress-vortices transmigrate
at rates that decay in distances proportionate to loss of potential.
Only the state of the elemental components in space is relevant and
not the components itself in this theory for it is in a perpetual
oscillatory state, as shown later. It does not contradict concepts in
science for the calculated proton decay time is about 10E+31 years,
which is about 20 orders more than scientific estimates on the life
of the Universe, Hence that period can certainly be considered an
eternity.
     In a contained field of substantial components in space, the
perpetual interactions remain in a balanced and un-manifest state
and only the changes created by any obstruction is manifested as an
observable parameter. The oscillatory state is kept in balance by the
interactive exchange of compressive and expansive stresses in a
three dimensional space that does not change its inherent
parameters. The cause and effect cycle can be observed only in the
sequential interactions whereas the simultaneous activity merges as
density and cannot be counted as distinct interactions.




                                                                 111
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                      Axiomatic Derivations.
     Researching, measuring, detecting, analysing, evaluating,
comparing, proving and all other similar activities can be classified
under a single process of accounting interactive states, without
losing the intrinsic meaning of the investigative spectrum of
activities it involves. Since the fundamental unit of interaction has
been defined as My, all the derivations can be carried out in terms
of its relative ratio to other interactive states, as dimensionless
numbers, since only oscillatory states are compared with a similar
unit as a standard. When radial ratio increases to two the volume
becomes eight but the incremental difference equals 7. Since cyclic
interactive count is C, the unit count value per cycle will be My
times. Therefore the value of the minimum displacement per cyclic
period is tp, for My defines the real ‘point’ in space.
                          23 1
                     tp          5.69688633326322E-44
                          CMy
    The minimum displacement distance or length per cycle is
displacement tp times interactive count rate C as Lp:
                     Lp Ctp 1.68955957273183E-35 .
    The Lp parameter defines the minimum distance formed in
the continuum of space. All the oscillatory displacements are in a
continuous and contiguous state and this distance cannot be
shortened within a cycle. It acts as a rigid rod and defines the
minimum displacement distance and therefore the maximum
density of interactions per cycle and is the equivalent of ‘Planck
length’ in Physics. The relationship of My, tp and Lp can be
rewritten in an invariant accelerative form Ap as follows:
                     7     C     C2
                Ap                    5.20593091686353E+51
                     My    tp    Lp
    The foregoing relates to linear displacements ratios. When it
changes its direction in sequential propagation, it forms curves,
spirals etc. The circular path however reaches the ratio when
centre and boundary maintain a constant relationship from which
behaviour the constant Px was derived. The ratios of parameter Lp
as the limit of cyclic displacement and the limit of a cycle as 2
provides the displacement rate per cycle at the boundary. The ratio
of Todc value 2 and the incremental expansion 23 – 1 = 7

112
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
similarly provides the displacement rate at the centre. In the
coherent state both these interactive ratios occur simultaneously
and the numerical count relationship displays the state before
coherence is broken. It is a resonant state before the Br
displacement takes place and transmigration begins. It is given by
the neutral state Ne as follows.
                                        3
                              Lp     2
                    Ne                         9.52873405E-35
                              2      23 1
     The Ne state marks the point of transition from the
continuum to the quantum state in space. Later, it will be shown
that when 7 Nes act simultaneously within a critical cyclic interval
a quanta is radiated and its numerical value equals the ‘Planck’s
Constant’ of energy radiated per cycle or frequency. Recalling that
ratio My, is the fundamental unit of interaction, the resonant
interactive state of the field in space can be derived as a neutral
field in the simultaneous state in which the expansive potential My
C3 and compressive potential Kx/C3 are identical and equal, as
follows:
                          Kx                           Kx
                    My         ....therefore....My C 3
                          3
                         C C 3                         C3
    Recalling that the constant Px is a coherent value that cannot
be detected because of its symmetry, modifying the coherent
neutral potential Kx/C3 by Px, will establish its relative interactive
count rate per cycle as PM. It cannot be detected as it is in the
coherent and perpetual oscillatory state:
                         Kx        MyC 3
               PM                           1.67442317907687E-27
                     PxC 3          Px
    The compressive and expansive oscillations in a resonant state
can change by 2 cycles, inward and outward respectively. As it is a
simultaneous interaction (within one interactive cycle) the ratio of
change in both phases will be Vc as volumetric compression and
Ve as volumetric expansion:
                       1
              Vc               3.8473221019 ……. Ve 23 1 7
                    21/ 3 1
     The total ratio of cyclic time involved in the simultaneous
interactive exchange from compression to expansion and vice versa
is the product of Vc and Ve as Tce:

                                                                   113
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                              Tce Vc Ve 26.931254713
     The change in compressive volume ratio is 2, the expansive
ratio is 7 and the perpetual resonance period is RS =1.0204081632.
Therefore the ratio of cyclic period to change expansion to
compression etc is Gmr and is the equivalent of the gyromagnetic
ratio in Physics, where it is derived empirically through
experimental methods. Recalling the archer’s bow example the
Gmr ratio displays the mechanics of cyclic conservation of two
opposing modes of volumetric stress as a simultaneous activity
proportionate to a single interactive period:

                                           2
Simultaneous cycle = SMC=             10        100

Sequential cycle = SQC =              [7       ( 7) ]   [7   ( 7) ]   28

 SMC                     10 10
          PR                                     3.5714285714 PR       3.5714285714
 SQC            [7   ( 7) ]    [7    ( 7) ]

                                    7 RS
                              Gmr        3.5714285714
                                      2
    Defining the compressively changed state as Pn and the
expansively altered state as Pm, then three sets of equations can be
created to derive the relative values of Pn and Pm that would
sustain the perpetual oscillatory state.

                                       PM Pm 7 RS
                               Gmr
                                       Pn PM   2
      Rewriting the equation in expanded form:

                          2 PM 2 Pm 7 RSPn 7 RSPM
                          PM (2 7 RS ) 7 RSPn 2 Pm
    Since the interaction is simultaneous and the cycle time is Tce
the ratio of Pn /Pm cannot exceed Tce2. Hence rewriting Pn in
terms of Pm:
                                            Pm
                               Pn Pm             Pm (1 1 )
                                           Tce 2      Tce 2
      Inserting Pn into equation Pm :



114
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                                              7 RS
                PM (2 7 RS ) Pm 7 RS                   2
                                              Tce 2



                                 2 7 RS
                Pm PM                             1.672621512E-27
                                      7 RS
                              7 RS            2
                                      Tce 2

    Therefore the value of Pn is :

                         Pm                 1 )
           Pn    Pm             Pm (1                 1.6749276458E-27
                      Tce 2               Tce 2

   The experimentally measured values of Proton as Pmex and
Neutron as Pnex in Physics are given below :
                         Pnex        1.6749286-27.kgs

                         Pmex        1.6726231E-27.kgs
The error between the derivation here and the experimental
measurements are 1 in 10E+6. The perpetual oscillatory state is
shown graphically as PPn by applying the three states as PM, Pn
and Pm:


                               PM Pm          Pn PM
                   PP
                     n               n          2
                              71  2
                                 100


The RS resonant decay ratio maintains balance but if the
oscillations tend to stop, break in resonance causes the interactive
state density to rise sharply, thereby providing the coherent
potential to keep up the dynamic state perpetually as the Perpetual
Harmonic Oscillator state or Pho.




                                                                         115
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                                          31
                                   1 10
                                  31
                   1.2354   10



                                          32
                             PP n 5 10



                                  34
                   1.0093   10                 0
                                                   0       2            4
                                          0.0000       n       4.0000


                            PPn

                            1.235429·10 -31
                            1.009337·10 -34
                            5.044709·10 -33
                            5.145561·10 -33
                            5.147579·10 -33

             Fig: Perpetual Harmonic Oscillatory Tunnel
    First, the derivation here is based on a combinatorial method
based on axiomatic values and as shown there is no latitude for any
change. Second, it exposes the PM value to Physics for the first
time and is accurate as it is axiomatically related to the accepted
values of the Neutron and Proton. Third, equating the
gyromagnetic ratio to both the Proton and Neutron states
establishes the oscillatory characteristics and therefore the logic of
a perpetual oscillatory state is conceptually verified. Fourth, the
constant but enigmatic ratio of the masses of Neutron and Proton
is derived from axioms here and it equals the measured values
closely, thereby providing a logical reason for it. The Neutron mass
increase is in the nature of a potential due to the compressive
merging of interactive stress counts. The Proton mass decrease
from PM is of a sequential or kinetic decrease of potential through
expansion of interactive stress counts. There is always the cost of
measuring any parameter in terms of loss in cycle time as the
process of measurement is an interactive state, hence there would
be a difference between the derived and measured values. Fifth, the

116
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
concept of mass and energy have been shown to be a superfluous
dimensional adjunct and only relative cyclic time is the correct
parameter needed in analysing universal phenomena. Sixth, the
concept of simultaneous and sequential interactions, operating in
self similar modes, has been proved to be correct and accurate.
Seventh, the accuracy of the derivation in the core stage confirms
the concept of a substantial continuum in space and the subsequent
derivations will give precise conceptual, logical and numerical
confirmation. Eighth, the treatment of phenomena as a
holographic ensemble has proven to be correct and confirms that
only interactive stress vortices transmigrate as ‘particle and/or
wave’ depending on the phase of interactions. When phase and
oscillatory rate are identical along all three axes the holographic
form is sustained repeatedly in the same place, displaying
particulate properties. When phase breaks the magnetic properties
are displayed. If oscillatory synchrony too breaks up the wavelike
transmigration commences. Ninth, since the entire harmonic
oscillation is within the coherent state, all the three states are not
detectable until the symmetry is broken, through accelerative forces
that upset the balance.
     The PM, Pn and Pm ensembles, form the core of the
perpetual oscillator Pho. The generic formula, derived in a later
chapter on perpetual harmonic oscillator will show that every
organised state from a galaxy to the atom follows the same
algorithm in a scale invariant manner using relative cyclic time in
which clock time is a unique parameter specified by the observer as
a measurable unit.
     As had been stated before, the concept of gravitation
originates from simultaneous interactions that reduce interactive
counts by merging into a dense state. Pursuing it further, the PM
state enables the derivation of the maximum interactive mass
increase possible during the interactive cycle. It can be viewed as
the inward compressive excursion that meets at a point before
reversing to expand. At the meeting point the density increase as
mass rises to Mps. It can be derived through at least nine separate
formulations that yield identical values as a fundamental unit cycle,
object unit cycle, compression limit cycle, time sequence cycle,
volumetric point cycle, acceleration cycle, flux cycle, volumetric


                                                                  117
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
field cycle and displacement field cycle thus confirming its
accuracy.
     The coherent Pho state can be rewritten in terms of the
dynamic Pn, Pm ensemble as:
                         2 Pm 7 RSPn
                   PM                    1.67442317907687E-27
                            7 RS 2
    As the PM state’s interactive density increases by the
equalisation of phase and oscillatory rate along two axis, the
reduction by merging of counts, increase the mass value of PM to
Mps. Merging reduces the log value by 2 from C3-2 to C, over twice
the Gmr cycle (forward and backward) as follows:
                                3
                   2 Pm 7 RSPn C PxGmr 2
           Mps                                   2.20369445381835E-8
                      7 RS 2      C
      Rewriting:
                          7 KxRS                       Kx
                   Mps           .......and .......PM
                             C                        PxC3
     The following derivation will show that the Pho state increases
its stress mass from the PM state to the limiting Mps state only by
reorganising the phase of the angular displacement to its maximum
compressive limit of 18 orders:
                  Mps            2   2    18    n    18
                         7 RSC          10     2 A 10        n   4
                 PMPx                10           n
     The factors involved in the Mps/ PM ratio are shown above
to indicate the two modes of synchronisation that makes the
counts vanish but displays it as the hidden density of the blackhole
or quark region forming the nuclear core. It is pertinent to
highlight the fact that the ratio of Planck mass to Nuclear mass is
equal to cycles of ten raised to 18 orders at 4 oscillations per cycle,
which proves that in the coherent domain phase and interactive
rate merge to 18 orders thus forming the maximum potential to
accelerate interactive stress towards the core at the phenomenal
rate of Ahs (derived below). None of these factors have been
exposed or predicted in Physics.
     The limits of both the minimum and maximum of the
intractive count rates have been derived through combinatorial
mathematics using axioms and therefore there is no possibility of
these values changing in natural phenomenon. It gives
extraordinary precision in deriving every possible variant in terms

118
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
of My within the Mps / PM boundary, though it would not be
possible to experimentally investigate the hidden simultaneous state
which contains the most massive or high density Sankhyan
Andhatamishra (blackhole) region as Ahs=C2(Gmr+Gmr)
interactive counts per cycle. It has been stated that mass is the
merging or superposing of many interactive count states within the
period of a single interactive cycle in the simultaneous state with a
centre of action and proof for it is in the Ahs value as:
                  Ahs C 2 Gmr Gmr      6.2826645825E+17
     The ratio of the radial and linear displacement has been shown
to equalise at 1/2x=0.809017 with its vector value as
         Further it has also been shown that 2nAn2=
 Therefore dividing Ahs by (2nAn2) must yield the number of cycles
as a logarithmic value to establish the criteria of simultaneity.
                   Ahs 6.2826645 E 17 18
                                     10 10 2 3 3
                  2 /10     n
                          (2 An )2
     The 1018 gives a precise proof that the simultaneous state is
established when the index n = 3 or 4 and that 18 orders of cycles
are merged within the same period as a single interactive cycle of
2       or Cos 36 deg. The merging of three axes in sets of two
indicates the conversion of flux into mass density and the final
merging of all three axial states into a coherent state at 18 orders.
The coherent state is dynamically maintained by an interactive rate
as low as 3 to 4 interactions per cycle. It signifies that it is
equivalent to the concept of winding numbers in complex topology
in Physics. The Cos(2                 1/2x indicates the angular
momentum is quantised as a ratio between the linear and circular
displacements within the same cyclic interval. It is pertinent to state
that every interactive displacement moves only in straight lines but
the ‘curvature’ arises only due to the compaction of stresses within
a cycle due to accelerative compression surround the
transmigration path.
     The 18 orders of merged interactions are generally applied in
Physics, to superconductive, ferromagnetic domains and the quark
regions in assymptotic freedom that are hidden by symmetric
interactive states but in the Sankhyan derivation every component
of the continuum of space is defined by the coherent symmetry of
the Ahs factor. It represents a potential state of 18 orders that

                                                                   119
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
would externalise as interactive stresses in an accelerative
transmigratory mode only when the coherence is broken at a rate
below 3 interactions per cycle. It is pertinent to recall that the Tk
state is maintained at 2 interactions per cycle and any reduction in
rate raises the density of interactive stresses in space to bring it
back into a balanced control. Another important fact exists in
Sankhyan logic that the stablility of states are proved if the ratio
(1/2)n forms a factor in its derivation. The number of interactive
counts in the sequential state remain the same when merged in the
simultaneous state but the observer would be able to count only
the reduced value, which surfaces as a mass etc in the equations of
balance.
     The published values of Mps as the Planck Mass is 2.177E-8,
due to the hidden simultaneous state constant Px as:
                    Planckmass Mps / 1 k 1        2.17721E 8
                                       Px
     The interactive stress variations that occur beyond the Px
boundary is at a radial distance k=21/3. Recalling the Tk expansion
(absolute temperature) rate at ( k-1 = .255921) ratio, the coherent
stress density changes to flux density in the lepton or electron state.
The electron as Mee can be derived by the same algorithm used to
obtain the PM, Pn and Pm nuclear states. The equivalent lepton
states are Me, Mep and Mee respectively. The value of Mee is
known in Physics but the Me and Mep are transitory states and
cannot be measured experimentally. Me is related to the PM state
and is derived as follows:

                                    2
                          21/ 3 1            2
                                        2
               Me    PM                          9.110233722E-31
                          (23 1)        10

      The Mep value is derived from the boundary of the Mps and
PM interaction. The rise in interactive density is calculated through
simultaneous activity while the compensatory exchange is derived
from the expanding state. When a radius doubles the volumetric
ratio rises by 8 but the difference causing the increment is 7. The
rate of compression in the simultaneous state is C1+x and the rate of
expansion within the same cycle is C1-x. Since the incremental
volume change is 7 both simultaneous compression and expansion

120
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
rates will be (C1+x)7 and (C1-x)7 respectively. In the case of the
compressive mode the ratio of displacement during the interaction
will by 1/21/3 . But the corresponding expansive ratio will form a
vector ratio with 7 expanding states , as the coherent state will be
broken, which is (1 (2 / 5)) / 7 . The unit of interaction being My,
the Mep state can be derived as:
                        7   1 2
             Mep   C1 x        5   My 9.110233722E-31
                             7

     The gyromagnetic ratio Gmr is modified by the displacement
ratio as (7 RS /2)(21/3 -1) and therefore the perpetual oscillatory
interaction comprising Me, Mep and Mee states follow:

                              Mep Me       1
                      Gmr
                              Me Mee     2 3
                                          1/


Since Mep and Me have been derived, the value of Mee by
rewriting with k = 21/3 is:
                       Mep Me        2
                                               1
                        7 RSk      Me Mee

                   2 7 kRS Me 2 Mep
            Mee                         9.1093838239E-31
                         7 kRS
The measured value of Mee, the electron state, is 9.1093897E-31
kgs and is close to the derived value. The Sankhya derivation shows
that the lepton group of Mep, Me and Mee are the synchronous
ratio of compressive and expansive interactive stresses that have
merged along two axes, to form the flux density states at the
boundary of PM with a displacement ratio (k-1)= 0.259921. The
nuclear coherent state of PM forms a stable core but at a distance
ratio of 1/(k-1) the boundary expands and contracts in resonant
harmony with the nuclear core. When PM rises compressively to
the Mps value, it also falls expansively within the same time cycle
to the Mep value at the boundary, in synchronous resonance to the
core changes in stress values. Hence whenever the coherence of
the nuclear core is broken the Mee state is exchanged as an
accelerative reaction in a transmigratory mode. The comparison of

                                                                 121
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
the nuclear core with its harmonic oscillatory boundary gives the
ratio of displacement as Kl :
                    Mep Me 2                PM Pm 2
            Kl                                                           0.259921
                   Me Mee 7 RS             Pn PM 7 RS
While Kl equals k-1, it is a dynamic differential that is dependent
on a complex set of interactive changes where all the states have
the indicated values. The interactive exchanges are the result of
Pho interactions and therefore perpetual and stable. The oscillatory
state across the Kl gap gives the Compton wavelength in Physics
and is at the outer lepton boundary where the coherent electron
state Mep forms into an undetectable envelope.

                            Mep Me                          Me Mee
                   Mmn
                               2
                                  2                           k2
                           71
                              100


                                           35
                                    2 10
                                   35
                       2.6224 10


                              Mm n


                                   38
                       2.1425 10                0
                                                    0       2        4
                                           0.0000       n       4.0000



                 Fig: Electron Formation Boundary.
Therefore the electron Mee attains the particulate state at the
instant of collision and transfers the stress across the k = 21/3
displacement gap to the next nuclear core, moderated by its
electron. Seven oscillatory volumes are transferred across the k-1
gap and forms a ratio of 7/k-1 = 26.93 at resonance. As it is a
dynamic oscillatory ratio it gives a detectable potential that registers
about 13.45 times the standard oscillatory cycle. Since the coherent
potential of the Mps/PMPx exchange has 2 1017 cycles merged
within the nuclear core (at an accelerative cycle of 10 counts)
breaks its symmetry and releases the entire set of counts across the
k-1 gap. The interactive stresses released in one cycle amounts to,
as Amp:

122
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                            Mps
                     Amp        10    6.282665E+18
                           PMPx
Since the potential change as a ratio is about 13.45 the Amp
released contains that number as a simultaneous interactive stress
ready to transmigrate to a lower potential/count value as an
electromagnetic current. The value of the potential and current is
derived below.
         Hence every nuclear state must have a boundary in the
three interactive modes. When the boundaries collide at different
rates and phase, the electron states transmigrate to balance the
stresses. The graph above shows the resonant point at index level
one where the interactive stress density rises sharply to reverse the
oscillatory rate to higher levels to keep the dynamic state
functioning. However when the nuclear boundaries have the same
oscillatory rates and phase the electrons merge but as the count
value decreases as a result, bonding takes place as a synchronous
resonant link. The Tk state’s negative potential well characteristics
control the rate, phase and displacement ratios thus keeping the
nucleus, its boundary and the adjacent nuclear states in harmonic,
oscillatory and interactively balanced state perpetually.




          ( X Y Z)                    ( X Y Z)

         Fig: The nuclear core and its surface in oscillation.
The smaller coloured spherical nucleus as a hadron is inside the
larger spherical surface of the electron or lepton state. Both are in
harmonic oscillation and maintain the balanced state till it is
interacted with by adjacent states. The diagrams represent the stress
vortices in the stable and harmonic oscillatory state. Since the stress

                                                                   123
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
vortices do not emit any radiative stresses unless impacted, there is
no means of capturing this form without first destroying it. The
picture of the holographic state is complete as an interactive
ensemble in the continuum of space.
         In terms of Physic’s empirical derivations the nuclear state
is moderated by the strong or time cubed density parameter and
the boundary where the weak force or the time squared flux density
parameter operates, is the lepton level. The flux density is distant-
dependant to the core density as mass, for only the equality of both
values, maintain balance or else a transmigratory accelerative force
is created. The cyclic t3 factor, as core density or mass, is always
equal to cyclic t2 value as flux density into linear time t as distance /
displacement rate.
                      3          Length3            L2       L
                  T
                            displacementrate 3     disp 2   disp
Hence the T3 state can be used to check the balance in any
complex equation involving area and linear parameters, for it must
always balance with the volumetric parameter at every instant as it
forms the limit constraint as Todc. It is logically wrong to deal with
linear parameters in isolation.

   B. Potential
                                   A. Mps Planckmass

  C. Mee
  Lepton                                     H. Mep


                                                 G. R
  D. PM
  Nucleus
                                                    F. R=k
                          E. Centre.


                                 Fig: The Triad.


124
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
A = Maximum density. B = Potential rise due to compression. C = PM boundary as lepton.
D = PM core boundary. E = Kx forming dynamic centre. G = core radius 1/k-1.
F = expanded boundary radius k. H = Potential drop due to expansion forming Mep.
The figure Triad shows the three way interaction, with Mps at the
high density apex, which has a simultaneous and coherent
connection with the PM state. At the same time the Mps apex
connects with the PM boundary in sequential displacement as a
lepton Mep in a flux density state. The connection to and from the
PM core to its boundary in the lepton state has the same oscillatory
time period as the Mps connection.
The coherent state PM forming the Pn and Pm oscillatory
ensemble expands to twice its volumetric state by an incremental
radial expansion of k-1 value, to form the lepton boundary
containing the Mep, Me and Mee electron state ensemble.
The entire group is in a coherent and synchronous state of
harmonic oscillation in the simultaneous mode where the counts
merge and presents the lowest rate towards which higher counts
gravitate and get absorbed by merging. The foregoing is a
descriptive definition of the continuum of space in an un-manifest
and therefore undetectable state but nevertheless in a perpetually
dynamic state. The particles detected as Proton, Neutron and
Electron etc, already exist passively as coherent stress forms in the
perpetually dynamic space field but attain the observable or
manifest state only when the break in coherence takes place by
colliding interactions. These holographic states are the result of
Pho interactions that neither stop nor can it be stopped, in the real
and substantial continuum of space. The axiomatic reasons are
given in the next chapter.
     Conservation of activity or work as interactive counts is a
fundamental property of a real field of matter regardless of whether
time as an interval of displacement is displayed as an observable or
not. The derivation of the theoretical process is easy because the
components of the space field are real objects and only the changes
in its state as vibrations are detectable and accountable. The entire
theoretical base is a relational one and eliminates the need for a
special relativistic approach for in a real field of matter nothing can
move relative each other except its dynamic state of stress. While
Special Relativity (SR) emphasises the constancy of the velocity of
light, in General Relativity (GR) the need for a relative velocity
concept is eliminated by postulating the Equivalence Principle

                                                                                 125
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
which confirms that two neighbouring points in a gravitational field
must not have any relative velocity between them if both
gravitational and inertial masses are to be identical. But zero
relative velocity between components in the continuum is the
natural property of a substantial field of matter and the need for
the equivalence principle is eliminated in a substantial space
continuum. For the ‘particle’ is only a holographic stress vortex on
the components forming the continuum in space. As mentioned
elsewhere, the concept in SR of photons travelling as independent
ensembles is impossible in a substantial field, which aspect was well
established by the ‘failure’ of Michelson Morley experiment. The
Lorentz transform artefact bailed out SR and fortunately the
merging of interactions was interpreted as a rise in frequency and
decrease in wavelength that matched the shrinking rod and slowing
clock concept. The fact is the oscillatory count rate of C can never
change in the axiomatic interaction between two neighbouring
components in the continuum of space, hence when the standard
displacements merged, the total transmigration distance reduced
but so did the actual transmigration time, for ratio C:
               C = Length / displacement per cycle.
    But frequency being the reciprocal of time, it carried forward
the ratio of merging displacement as an increase in frequency.
Physics, bent on keeping the holy second intact, took the lead to
adopt an act of legerdemain in SR. Time is the most difficult
parameter to understand and handle in Physics and in the following
chapter the interval that separates the simultaneous from the
sequential or divides one object into two or when charge becomes
mass, is derived with proof.




126
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
            Axiomatic Basis for Physics: Pho State.
     The perpetual harmonic oscillatory state (Pho) algorithm was
used to derive the nuclear (hadron) and boundary (lepton) states in
the previous chapter to demonstrate its validity in space. However,
the generic principle is applicable to any coherent or simultaneously
interacting state in a space with substantial qualities, wherein
interactive stresses transmigrate in various forms. Since only
interactions are counted, as a ratio to a standard cycle of ten cyclic
counts, it is the only parameter needed to define and derive the
algorithm. An extremely simple derivation is presented below to
make this extraordinary state perfectly understandable, for it has
not been derived in present day Physics.
          Any coherent volumetric oscillation can attain a resonant
state if equal compressive and expansive interactive exchanges take
place simultaneously within a cycle, which forms a rate of two
interactions. Within the same cyclic period, the radial expansion
too can harmoniously attain a rate of two but the incremental
volumetric ratio becomes seven as (23 -1=7). Hence the ratio of the
two rates of harmonic exchanges carried out simultaneously within
the single centred cyclic period would be 7/2=3.5. While the
simultaneous exchange at the rate of 2 would be within the
coherent boundary the seven exchanges would occur outside and
would take a minimum interactive count of 2= [1 – (-1)] as a
forward and backward displacement within the cycle. In a
volumetric oscillatory process, the interactive count within the
cycle being ten, the total count along all three axial directions
would be 103 as the Todc factor. However in the coherent cycle, all
the interactions must have the same phase and oscillatory rate to
attain a simultaneous oscillatory rate and therefore the counts along
two axes would merge and vanish, leaving 10 as the detectable
count. Therefore, since the cycle becomes complete only after ten
counts the delay of 2 interactions reduces the hidden count of 102
to 98, whereas the coherent hidden rate remains at 102 and this
ratio RS = 100/98 = 1.020408163265 etc, and forms a
transcendental series extending the cyclic delay ratio to infinite
hidden cycles. Since the delay is in the 7 incremental states, it
increases by 100/98, while the coherent rate remains at two.

The core algorithm is:
                                                                  127
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
      Expansiveincrease densityincrease            cycle 2
       volumeincrease Compressiveincrease cycle 2 2(displacements )
         The increase in both cases must refer to a standard, stable
and numerically identifiable state. In three dimensional space a
resonant half cyclic period covers volumetric, surface and linear
oscillatory periods by the following ratios 21/3, 22 and 23
respectively. At the stated ratios, the time periods are the same for
all the three modes of oscillatory interaction. Expansive ratio is E
and compressive ratio is P within the period of a single interaction.
                            1 E     2       102
                     RS                              1.020408163265
                            23 1   P 1     102 2
         The coherent state constant Px and the harmonic state
constant Kx have been derived earlier. The ratio of both as the
universal constant Px/Kx provides a stable base for comparison of
coherent states. The volumetric expansion constant KV, provides a
stable base for comparison with Px in sequential expansive states.
The ratio of the increase due to expansion and compression across
the coherent boundary as Tce has also been derived earlier. Setting
all of the ratio constants to one, so that a generic formula could be
derived, the expansive increase as 1-E, the compressive increase as
P-1 and RS=100/98, will enable equating the above numerically as:

            1 E     2           1 E       P 1
                       1.......               ....... 2 2 E   P 7 RS 7 RS
            7 RS   P 1          7 RS       2

The relation between E and P cannot exceed Tce and being
simultaneous it increases as Tce2. Hence the ratio is:

                                            1
                               P   E 1
                                          Tce 2

          Substituting P in equation:

                                            1
                          2 2 E 7 RSE 1           7 RS
                                          Tce2




128
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                                                  1
                      2 7 RS 7 RSE 1                   2E
                                                Tce2

                          2 7 RS
                  E                              0.9989240073
                                1
                      7 RS 1                2
                               Tce2

                                    1
                      P E 1                 1.00030128
                                Tce2


                                        2
                      P        k 1
                          1                     1.00137875
                      E         7


                1 E 1 .998924                  7RS
                                 3.5714292353=
                P 1 1.00030128 1                2

The Gmr ratio is a standard and constant ratio of expansive and
compressive states at the unit radial boundary where the balance is
established as a dynamic and perpetually interactive state, which
never attains a static equivalence but remains in a state of
perpetually exchanging unbalanced stresses within the same cycle.
It applies to every oscillatory state, from a galaxy to a photon, in
form, all of which can be defined as a hologram. It replaces the
solution, called the Hamiltonian, to the well know problem of the
classical harmonic oscillator where the fields have not yet appeared
but yet is assumed to be in a quantised state. The derivation above
shows that it is a quantised state before and after the field appears
in Physics. In Physics, the commencement of the transmigration of
stress from the perpetual oscillatory state is defined and measured
as the field state, whereas in reality the prior field is also in a
coherent state but cannot be detected because there are no
observable changes. A perfect sphere will seem to be in a stationery
state, whether spinning or not and that represents the state of
coherence. All experimental techniques in Physics involve the use
of an accelerative force to detect and analyse phenomena and that
process destroys the coherent state to create a state of resonant
decay. Hence at present there is no method to detect and analyse

                                                                 129
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
coherent state activity. In a later chapter, a process of detecting
changes in phase by synchronising organic molecular states, is
given.
         Summarising, the state of oscillatory balance in a three
dimensional volumetric stress form, is achieved by equating the
outward sequential expansion ratio of seven with the inward
simultaneous compressive ratio of two, with the forward and
backward displacement rate, within a single cycle time. Because the
interactive count rate and phase are kept identical and equal there is
neither radiation nor absorption of stress counts in both directions,
the resonant standing wave state of 2 or half wavelength cyclic state
is conserved. The compressive stress rise is conserved as the
magnetic state and expansive charge state balances out the energy
or work equation every instant in the cycle. The axiomatic proof:
                               1 E   2
                                                   1
                               P 1 7 RS
Rewriting this as an equation to display the progressive difference :

                                   1 E                 P 1
                      Dn
                                               n        2
                            71      2
                                   100
The graph below shows the potential well, with characteristics
similar to the Tk potential.

                                       4
                               51 10
                   7.3782 10


                           D n 5 10 5


                               8
                   6.0280 10               0
                                               0           2        4
                                       0.0000          n       4.0000
       Fig: Density Change from Compressive to Expansive
The negative characteristics is established between index zero and
one, indicating that when the oscillatory rate tends to stop the steep
increase in stress density reverses it to keep it in perpetual

130
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
oscillation. The table below shows the steep reversal between index
zero and one, where the value is lowest thus forming the negative
potential well.

                           1         E             P       1
                                              n        2
                                      2
                     7 1
                                   100
                              -7.3782·10 -5
                               6.0280·10 -8
                               3.0128·10 -6
                               3.0730·10 -6
                               3.0742·10 -6
The second proof of the correctness of the above derivation lies in
Planck’s findings, where the wavelength of radiation in a blackbody
radiation spectrum (the blackbody is the equivalent of the balanced
but perpetual harmonic oscillatory state) maximises at .0029
m/Kelvin which forms ratio at an acceleration of one metre per
second as shown below.
                                 KV
              wavelengthmax         1 E           2.9251131584E-3
                                 Px
The KV/Px ratio equals Tk, the perpetual thermal potential in
space that keeps the dynamic state in balance. It gives the ratio of
displacement during the expansion cycle initiating the change and is
equivalent to the maximum change in wavelength for the smallest
change in flux density or thermal temperature change that forms
the unit.
                                   KV
                Potentialmin          P 1 8.1903168E-4
                                   Px
It is evident that the minimum potential needed to obtain the
maximum displacement is controlled by the Gmr ratio, which must
be seen as the resonant conservation mechanism that transfers
interactive stresses between the simultaneous and sequential
displacements, within the same cyclic period. Within the Gmr
boundary, the magnetic field is created when the 7 expansive states
accelerate towards the resonant boundary at twice the core radius
(8 volumes) but the potential being below the radiant level, the

                                                                    131
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
spectrum of 7 rebounds back through 7 sequential levels involving
cyclic time that is displayed as a resonant set of seven nodal
frequencies in the basic or hydrogen orbital states. Because time is
involved in decaying, it does work in restarting the harmonic
oscillatory process, which ensures that the dynamic state continues
perpetually or at the rate of RS. The magnetic state is a
simultaneous interactive phase where a cycle of 10 interactions are
compressed to 7 levels instantly as 107 per cycle.
         The important principle exposed by the derivation above is
that, transmigration of stresses take place when ever opposing
interactive counts are not equal. Since differences in interactive
counts arise in both the simultaneous and sequential modes it can
be stated positively that stress transmigration movement is initiated
only when interactions do not synchronise instantly to reverse the
action reaction cycle. In the contained coherent state, the one to
one interactive reaction is ensured by a higher volumetric or mass
density of interactive counts which vanish within its boundary.
When coherent symmetry is broken, it polarises into area
dependant flux density and sequential interactive count dependant
linear displacement. The flux density arises from interactions along
two axis acting simultaneously and hence the counts decrease by
merging which ‘attracts’ linear displacements. The coherent counts
being merged by the third order constraint, it in its turn ‘attracts’
the flux response. Hence there is no logical basis to consider the
existence of types of forces as an independent principle. The
strong, weak and electromagnetic forces are differentiated only by
the degree of super-positioning or merging of interactive counts.


                      KV      23           7
                Spn
                                                 2
                      Px    101 x k
                                       2 2n An


The derivations with graphical explanations below will establish the
mechanism of transmigration of interactive stresses towards the
lowered count state forming into a potential well by merging
counts in resonant states.


132
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                                            0.1
                           0.0855



                            Sp n 0.05



                                    5
                6.7419       10               0
                                                  0            2                4
                                                  0.0000       n     4.0000

                         Fig: Transmigration
Analysing the fundamental state of the field in space at the moment
of breaking up its coherent state, the comparison shows the
creation of the potential sink at rate 2 is Spn. shown above. The
density in the coherent state rises to the maximum level when the
Mps mass state is formed. Despite the maximum rise in density the
balancing point in the perpetual oscillatory state equals the state of
the fundamental field at density two, which is the ideal resonant
rate.
                                  KV               7       1
                  Mp
                       n          Px              MpsC (2 A 2)2
                                                         n
                                                            n


                                            0.1
                             0.0855



                              Mp n 0.05



                                        5
                   6.7419      10             0
                                                   0       2                4
                                                  0.0000   n       4.0000


                    Fig: The Pho balancing point


                                                                                    133
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
The highest density coherent state has been shown to have the
same characteristics as the fundamental space in which the field
state begins to emerge from the continuum of space. It highlights
an important point that the rate of interactive activity is under the
control of variations in density due to changes in the boundary
condition. The cross-over point where the compressive rise in
density equals the expansive fall in density is at a balance where the
Todc aspect establishes the limiting constraint as (Cx)3.
                      Kx                      PM
                                                                  0
                      Px                      3
                                     3    x                   3
                                Rp       C        (k     1)
The sequence of balanced states derived above confirms the
connectivity of all interactive parameters in space without any
uncertainty and leads to the positive conclusion that the continuum
of space displays the same characteristics of any substantial field.
The observer, whose existence too is controlled by the dynamic
parameters of the field, cannot detect the un-manifest but
dynamically coherent state of the field, for any attempt to measure
it, breaks the coherent state instantly. As shown above any
disturbance that tends to obstruct the perpetually dynamic state of
the field rapidly raises the reactive mechanism to keep the field in
its oscillatory state. As a result no observer can detect or measure
any parameter in fundamental space directly.
          The foregoing demonstrates that simultaneous interactions
in the coherent state maintain a perpetual oscillatory state where
the compressive and expansive states exchange stresses without
breaking the resonant state. Resonance is broken when either
timing or displacement exceed a precise limit that breaks the
synchronised phase relationship of the two opposing stressed
states. The expansion of the PM boundary creates the Pm state
but it is still kept in resonance by the lepton state oscillations with
an extended range of interaction that is just about ready to break
the Gmr cycle symmetry as displayed by the Mmn graph. The
formulation that breaks the symmetry is as follows:
                 l3                                           3
                               3                        2 R           3
                           t             TODC                     2
               vmax3           min                       v
When R equals v the constant (2                        becomes a limiting ratio.


134
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
          Recalling that Gs = density x time2, the minimum
displacement cycle time tp must occur at the maximum interactive
density Dp, values of both are derived from axiomatic principles
later on.
          At and less than tp the field behaves as a continuum
displaying the properties of coherence where interactions are
simultaneous and dense. The sequential interactive state can
commence only when tp is exceeded by an axiomatic ratio, after
which the transmigratory state is initiated.
          The symmetry of the simultaneous Todc state must be
broken, in order to derive the ratio Bl, when expansion coupled
with transmigration of stresses, begins and it is:

                3
           2         Mep Me 2       PM Pm 2
                                                  39.218497
            2       Me Mee 7 RS    Pn PM 7 RS


The symmetry breaking interval Bl=39.2185 can also be derived
logically by using the fact that in the simultaneous state the time2
parameter vanishes by merging and consequently in Bl the
(2 value remains merged and hidden. It would be exposed when
the simultaneous state symmetry is broken but that can happen
only when the expansion ratio exceeds two or by its radial
incremental value k-1. The ratio is axiomatically constrained. There
are three ratios, volumetric, radial and cyclic. The 7/k-1 is the
volumetric change ratio. Ratio 7/2 is the linear radius change to
cyclic circumferential change. The 7/10 is the number of radius to
interaction per cycle change ratio. If 7/k-1 is compared with
7/2 then the revised ratio is 2 k-1), which is a simultaneous
state ratio and on correcting for cyclic time of 2 , it changes to
(2 2 /(k-1). The Bl /(k-1) ratio as Br is equal to ((2 2 /(k-1)).
                              2
                          2
                    Br             151.8861885958
                          k   1
                              1
                    Brf   1        1.0065838771
                              Br

Hence these ratios form a loop but on symmetry-breaking, the
displacement cycle or interval forms a differential leading to
                                                                135
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
sequential interactive states. Therefore, unless the ratio of the
minimum cyclic interval tp is increased by the difference Brd =
(2       (k-1) = 39.218497 , the symmetry cannot be broken for it
acts as an inertial or mass potential that has vanished when
coherence was achieved and must be reversed. Recalling that
simultaneous interactions merge and vanish, sequential interactive
states transmigrate as acceleration towards it and hence the act of
reversal needs a steep rise in the reactive rate.
                              3
                         2             Mep-Me 2    PM - Pm 2
          Btp tp                  -              -                   2.234233E-42
                          2           Me-Mee 7 RS Pn- PM 7 RS

The minimum cyclic time tp increases to Btp when coherent
symmetry is broken. It denotes that the increase is a sequential
interaction that does work or uses energy. Unless the Btp value is
exceeded the coherence state cannot be broken. It is to be specially
noted that the coherent state was attained by the creation of the
Mps state due to the intense gravitational acceleration 7/My
caused by the Ahs spin / angular momentum becoming
simultaneous. The instantaneous Btp value applies to a single
interactive state but cyclically it increases by rate C to reach the
value of h, equal to the Planck’s energy constant.
       h     BtpC             (2.234233E - 42)(2.965760 E   8)   6.626199 E - 34
                                               Or
                 3
            2              Mep - Me 2   PM - Pm 2            Mps
      h              -                -                               6.626199 E - 34
             2            Me- Mee 7 RS Pn- PM 7 RS          C 2Gs
The experimental observation of quantised action is only due to the time taken
to break the coherent symmetry of the Pho state in the continuum of space. The
instantaneous expansion creates an interactive stress vortex or holographic
photon state that carries the spin angular momentum equal to the Ahs value,
all of which is released as a torroid. The stress vortex transmigrates from node
to node at an oscillatory rate C. The time needed to cross the k-1 gap at every
node in the Pho state results in the reduction of the Ahs value by a factor
proportionate to (x+x)=(1/cos(2 /10) as conversion of spin to linear
displacement and (1+(2/C1-x )) as the resonant expansive interactive delay .
The stress vortex (photon) transmigrates over a period of cyclic time TT or the
distance RU= TTxC. It is proved mathematically as follows:



136
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification

            Ahs k 1 x x 1        2        TT    2.02083919345873E+17
                                C1 x
The equivalent of the TT ratio was discovered by Hubble and a
complete derivation with proof is given later. The value of h,
which forms the foundation of quantum mechanics, has been
derived precisely by applying Sankhyan principles of simultaneity
wherein the rules of self similarity and scale invariance prevail
unfailingly. While Btp is the cyclic time interval below which two
interactive counts become one and act simultaneously, h = BtpC
is the differential cyclic time interval, less than which two charges
become one and increase its density. It is extremely important to
understand that the Planck’s constant value is dependent on C
interactions in a ‘one second’ cycle, whereas the Btp interval
defines the very first interactive state after coherence is broken.
Therefore it can be concluded positively and with certainty that the
Btp interval, which is C times smaller than h, deals with the instant
when density as mass changes to density as flux across the Mps
boundary that forms the source of radiative phenomena. The tp or
the Btp interval can never be detected, measured and defined in the
experimental laboratory. Therefore Physicists have been forced to interpret the
symmetry breaking event that initiates radiation, to a period where the
interactive count has risen from 10 to C and the cyclic interval from 1
nanosecond to one second. Even the singularly important rest-mass determining
Compton wavelength, provides the oscillatory rate only at a radial distance 21/3
times the radius where a resonant state can be sustained. There is no known
experimental procedure to detect or measure the coherent boundary of particulate
states. The proof exists as shown diagrammatically:
                   Expanded boundary at 21/3 R where
                   volumetric resonance at 1/2 oscillatory rate
                   becomes detectable as the Compton
                   wavelength

                       Coherent boundary R where phase &
                       oscillatory rate along all three axes
                       remain identical.

        Fig: Compton wavelength marks coherent boundary.


                                                                           137
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
  Stating it another way, the work done or energy expended as
interactive stress of a single interaction can only be measured after
C cycles in one second, which then becomes a quantum. But
phenomenon in reality is not quantised at the discrete level. The
observer’s ability to directly detect interactive activity is not
sensitive enough and he has to wait for his measuring cup to fill C
counts in C nanoseconds before obtaining a value. Because of the
foregoing lacuna, there arose the need to postulate the principle of
uncertainty, which brought in the dependence on statistical
evaluation to identify the interactive state of this hidden regime.
The measurable interval h is BtpC but Lp = tpC is the limiting
displacement per cycle. Therefore h/Lp = Btp/tp =Bl. The
symmetry breaking Bl occurs much earlier at Btp/tp, but the
quantum becomes detectable only at h/Lp. In Physics h indicates
the value of the energy quantum proportionate to frequency,
whereas in Sankhya tp is the limiting interval below which the
coherent state is formed. Hence there is an interactive count lag
proportionate to,
           Lag = h/tp = BlC = 1.16310474044592E+10.
The Lag period hides important simultaneous transitions that
cannot be detected or quantified in a system which uses work,
energy or power to balance equations, for these are second order or
reactionary derivations.
         The value of the charge (or the flux density) in Sankhya is
built of Cx simultaneous counts interacting at C counts per cyclic
time period and its value is derived with proof below. As described
in the earlier chapter, the mass, charge and quanta concepts are the
result of experimental observations, which are the simultaneous
and sequential interactive states in the continuum of space.
Coherent volumetric states in the simultaneous interactive mode
display density as mass. The break in coherence splits the phase
symmetry and separates the volume into area and length. Changes
in area result in flux density variation, simultaneously leading to
proportionate changes in the linear displacement density as
frequency in Physics. Axiomatically there can be only one
interactive rate of exchange of compressive/expansive stresses
between two adjacent oscillatory states and that is C interactions
per unit cyclic period of 10 interactive states with 1/(2 x)=
cos(2 /10) displacement ratio. The foregoing is an axiomatic state

138
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
and cannot be changed in a space continuum comprising
substantial components. Hence any oscillatory rate higher than C
as frequency can be only due to superposition or merging, thereby
decreasing the expansive interval C/Cx = C1-x. In a substantial
space continuum the constant axiomatic rate of C must equal the
ratio of length / cyclic time or (L/T). The concept of frequency
then becomes the reciprocal of cyclic time in which any frequency
increase implies that more than C interactions are taking place
within the same cyclic period that signifies the density of interactive
counts have increased with the consequent decrease in the
displacement parameters. When the Brd differential is exceeded
transmigration as radiation commences from this point as a
quantum or photon. The Sankhyan concept is that the perpetually
interacting oscillatory stresses are externalised when the h
displacement value is exceeded, thereby causing the breakup of
phase symmetry which destroys the coherent state. Alternately, the
oscillatory rate C had both the compressive and expansive ratios
equal in terms of displacement & cyclic time or the net differential
was zero, before radiation. But when h was exceeded, the net
differential displayed an accelerative value in the direction of the
symmetry breaking stress that caused it. It is important to recognise that
the quanta existed even before the radiation triggering event, as a perpetually
oscillating volumetric quantum in a coherent Pho state that did not display a
detectable displacement wave but after the event the transmigrating stress
displayed particulate qualities with wavelike movement. On expansion, the
stress transmigration force became detectable but on compression
the force reversed and became undetectable, thus introducing a
number of observational anomalies which spawned an equal
number of hypothetical principles to justify them. For instance,
there is no uncertainty in calculating the stress excursions in any
direction, before the application of h, as has been shown in the
nuclear PM and its boundary state. The problem has arisen
because of the unawareness of the Pho state and as a result the
outer boundary states were labelled as leptons like electrons and
neutrinos etc. Similarly the Neutron and Proton states are the
stationary nodes of the oscillatory reversals at the nuclear core
boundary.
           The Pho state releases a stress vortex only when the
constant h is exceeded which indicates that stresses do not

                                                                          139
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
transmigrate as a continuous flow but is periodic and displays wave
characteristics. Hence the total distance covered in a specific cyclic
period by the transmigration process falls short, by the following
factor. The shortfall in transmigration distance per cycle time is:
               Mep Me 2        PM Pm 2       1
       Sl                                         8.764063E-10
              Me Mee 7 RS     Pn PM 7 RS     C
         The Sl value has also been identified as the delay in
receiving wireless signals from distant spacecraft that forms a
theoretical anomaly (Pioneer anomaly) for no theory in Physics has
predicted this factor. As a result there would be a shortfall of one
second or about 300000000 meters between the calculated and
theoretically distance in about 10 billion years.
         The basic interactive count ratio is related to a cycle of ten
counts based on self-similarity operating in any confined domain.
The total cycle count along all three axial directions is 103 but
reduces to 10 when axial phase and rate of oscillation are identical,
thus merging 102 counts per interaction. Further the Kl delay
occurs due to the ratio of expansion between coherent core and the
outer boundary being in a resonant state. Hence the ratio of this
delay per period of C is the impedance to stress transmigration:
                               102
                    imp                  377.037566
                            21/ 3 1 RS

The imp ratio is a constant delay due to merging of interactive
cycles and affects the interactive cycles in all axial directions. In a
an accelerative cycle the coherent state is broken periodically or
cyclically whereby the unbalanced stresses are forced to
transmigrate towards lowered interactive count states. Though the
compressive expansive exchange takes place within an interactive
cycle, it is not along the same axis as the phase symmetry is broken
by the accelerative force. Hence a forward transmigrating stress
along the x axis reacts with a simultaneous lateral reaction along
both the y and z axes. As the x axis force is compressive the lateral
one will be expansive. Hence both types of forces react
simultaneously but in different axial directions as follows.
          It has been established earlier that the PM state is the
undetectable but coherent perpetual harmonic oscillator state in the
continuum of space. Therefore, the imp delay must relatively affect

140
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
its interactive state due to accelerative stresses. As coherence is
broken the merged interactions would be released as C2 but due to
the imp delay its value would increase and decrease in the two
phases of the oscillatory cycle:

                            Kx     imp
                       r                   1.118203E+11
                           PxC 2   PM


                            Kx       1
                       r                      7.865953E+5
                           PxC 2   PMimp


The r value is the compressive increase in interactive rate in the
direction of acceleration and equals the reciprocal of the force of
an electric charge or the permittivity factor in electromagnetic
wave transmigration. The normal interactive rate of the Pho is C
but on accelerative compression it rises to r. While at the same
time its lateral boundary expands thus reducing its count rate to r
or the reciprocal of the permeability factor          indicating the
magnetic flux density that returns the oscillator to the state of
resonant balance.
         The r and r factor was derived as a resonant ratio where
the RS resonant decay in infinite time factor was involved. If now
the Br factor that indicated the difference between the
simultaneous and sequential interactive states or the interval that
separated the continuum and quantum states in space is introduced
into the same expression but as an interval of an interactive cycle, it
will be shown to create the lepton or electron mass state.
       PM        Br
                                               Mep
               2 imp
       7
   k       1
Recalling that PM formed the nuclear core in the simultaneous
state and the leptonic boundary at a displacement of [7/(k-1)]2
created the Mep electron state that was also in the simultaneously
oscillating Pho state. When the imp interval was reduced to
(2         by the Br ratio, the boundary of PM attained the
simultaneously oscillating state, whereas it was in the
                                                                   141
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
electromagnetic sequentially oscillating state that created the
electric and magnetic oscillations as changing phases in a cycle.
Hence the sequential electromagnetic oscillations changed to
simultaneous state where in the oscillatory phase difference
between two axes reduced to the Br level and became a
simultaneously interactive phase. When the third axis oscillatory
timing reduced even further by the ratio 7/(k-1), then all three axes
attained a zero phase difference or it became a coherent state PM.
Because Sankhya logic is based on axiomatic values, the sequence
of synchronisation of the three axes could be logically traced and
the equation of balance of time and displacement could be
matched exactly in every way. Then it becomes evident that
electromagnetic phenomenon occurs when there is a phase
transition through breaking synchronisation between two axis. The
so called weak force involving the massive W & Z bosonic states,
occur when the synchrony between three axis in the coherent PM
state breaks and leaves two in locked phase. The strong force
comes into existence when the coherent PM state oscillatory rate is
increased when the boundary leptonic state Mep is added and
synchronised to lock in coherent step with the PM state but at a
higher density.
          In Sankhya, the break from the coherent state sets in
motion stresses, as flux density that, transmigrated as electro-
magnetic field waves in Physics. The entire cycle of compression,
expansion and transmission is defined as the threefold TriGuna
state in the Sankhya Sutras and forms the core and foundation of
all phenomena in it. The compressive Tamasa state, at high density,
is mediated by the transition bosonic Raja states and followed by
the expansive and radiating Satva state, of the electromagnetic
spectrum. All the three formed a unitary cyclic of interactive
oscillations with three different phase of time interval between the
three axial directions in volumetric space. As shown it is related to
the source of perpetual power, available from the substantial
continuum of space and therefore the principle of conservation (at
source) of the electric & magnetic or compressive & expansive
interactive counts, is well founded. The Pho state polarised into the
electric and magnetic phases due to the break in coherence that was
created by the simultaneous interactive exchange of compressive
and expansive stresses kept in balance by the Gmr ratio. The Kl

142
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
factor influenced the polarisation mode and in the process
introduced a time delay and therefore a loss in displacement ratio
by the Sl factor. Therefore the distance of transmigration of stress
at one metre wavelength would be (C-Sl) metres in one second.
          In Physics, electromagnetic theory was developed from
experimental observations and empirical inputs that had no
connection to the source of its field. Maxwell formulated
mathematical algorithms from observation and experiment that did
not show its connection to the source of perpetual dynamism in
space. It was conjectured that electromagnetic waves transmigrated
of itself and by itself, without any connection to a motive source.
The Special Theory of Relativity introduced a mathematical
correction to offset the failure of the Michelson Morley
experiments.
          The Lorentz Transform was used to justify an error of
concept that light waves or photons travelled with a constant
velocity C like an object on the surface of the earth, free of any
obstructions, in a space without identity. Whereas the holographic
stress-vortices as photons transmigrated at a constant oscillatory
rate C form one oscillatory node to another by increasing and
decreasing the interactive displacement or merging ratio, within
each oscillatory cycle, in such a way as to provide a net
displacement in the direction given by the accelerative input. In the
balanced Pho state, the net displacement was zero, for the
interactive stresses superposed or merged as simultaneous activity
to cancel out the two opposing phases and attained its full potential
which is defined as its rest mass. When the accelerative
displacement from a previous Pho state increased it was passed on
to the next unit. The reduction in displacement distance with
increase in density of interactions within a cycle increased the time
duration of merged interactions.
          The theory of Special relativity addressed this apparent
anomaly through the Lorentz transform as shrinking rods and
slowing clocks but had Physicists recognised that three dimensional
continuum of space consisted components and its vibratory state
was being detected as manifestation or phenomena. When
vibrations compresses together its length had to reduce but the
time cycle consequently was forced to increase as there were more
cycles within the same interval. Hence Special and General

                                                                 143
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
relativity arose out of an error of concept and therefore is not a real
theoretical principle applicable to reality.
          Recall the derivation of the CL value obtained by
experiment and that by Sankhya theory. The interaction between
two adjacent components in the continuum of space is a constant
C which is the frequency-equivalent of a meter wavelength. Since C
can never change, only the phase angle of the displacement can
vary such that a net transmigratory movement is initiated as a
vector, proportionate to the accelerative input. In the continuum of
space, the interactive rate between two adjacent components must
be C = displacement / time. But in Physics, the constant C as
velocity was equated to wavelength x frequency. The reciprocal of
time is frequency but a decrease in time would increase frequency,
which was the same as stating that if the density of displacements
per cycle is increased the gap as wavelength, decreased. In the
following chapters proof will be given that shows the numerical
value of stresses which exist in the simultaneous state as interactive
counts. It provides the motivating potential to initiate stress
transmigration as a ‘velocity’.
          Before the photons are radiated there exist no detectable
parameters as the coherent state is equated to a spherical surface.
Though the graphic stress diagrams shown below are real, it cannot
be detected as such because only after its collision the stress density
is released to create a detectable reaction, only then work is done.




            Fig: Pho state before a photon was radiated.




144
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification




        Fig: Accelerative impact breaks coherent symmetry.
         If the accelerative impact from an adjacent Pho state broke
the coherent symmetry and if it exceeded the Br factor, a self-
sustaining vortex transmigrated from node to node as visualised
below.




               Fig: An accelerated vortex or Photon.

         The photon became a self sustaining and transmigrating
vortex only because the interactive acceleration factor exceeded the
Gmr ratio. It broke the symmetry of the Pho state which changed
the zero displacement state to one with net acceleration with
magnitude and direction, with the Amp value as a simultaneous
vortex or photon. The photon decays in two modes. When there is
no obstruction the vortex transmigrates, losing (1/2 +1/2 =1)
interactive count per interactive cycle and decays in about TT
seconds or RU meters, naturally into a space at its critical density
DD. When there is an obstruction and the resonance is broken, the
ratio of the difference between CL the transmigrating rate and C
the basic one, is logarithmically proportional and therefore the
absorption rate is determined by the density and related parameters
existing at that location. It is a complex process shown graphically
in ‘Fig: Decay and Absorption of Stress in Space.’ It is a matter of

                                                                145
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
factual interest that Psychics like Leadbeater and Anne Besant,
among several others saw the form of the photon as shown
graphically above. Electronic image capturing instrumentations do
not at present have the ‘speed’ to display such forms. It is highly
indicative that at the time of writing book, the view in Physics,
taken from a university ‘website-classroom’ was: ‘We can only conclude
that light is somehow both a wave and a particle--or that it's something else we can't
quite visualize, which appears to us as one or the other depending on how we look at it.’
         The Sankhya derivation shows that the Photon, formed as
a vortex by interactive stresses, into a coherent state that breaks up
and reforms when transmigrating from node to node, which act as
stable harmonic states. The ‘node’ formed on the components in
space by highly compressed stressed states that are “acting
simultaneously”, reach the limiting levels of the Mps complex. At
the node its particulate characteristics are displayed and when
resonance breaks it into harmonic states it transmigrates with
wavelike properties. In short there are no ‘solid’ particles except
when the basic point component is exposed by interactive stress
density states in excess of Pd. Stating it another way, the coherent
state of the components is space cannot be ‘seen’ unless it radiates.
But the coherent state is maintained by the Pho activity which does
not radiate. However when coherence is broken and radiation does
take place, the observer sees it as ‘electromagnetic waves or light’,
which ‘hides’ the form of the components forming an eternal
conundrum.
          The Michelson Morley type of experiment should be
conducted again with a reference to C as a standard frequency with
a meter wavelength and look for compression of frequencies in the
direction of travel and compensatory expansion in the opposite
direction. The increase or decrease would be logarithmically
proportionate to distance of source. The field stresses would not
vary significantly across a laboratory table hence, verification must
be carried out over a long distance, which Hubble did. If the
experiment exposes the Sl factor too, the verification would be
complete. The experiment would also expose a self-similar and
scale invariant feature that every length would have its associated
cyclic time as constant C = length/cycle-time as a universal
standard and therefore our clock time would vary. These factors
would confirm the reality of space that cannot be detected directly.

146
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
         The potential source of the Pho state forms the limit in a
number of related operating parameters. The connections are
derived axiomatically which eliminates arbitrary postulates and
establishes its credibility as forming the cornerstone of hidden
phenomena in the continuum of space. All the stable states have
the Gmr value as an operating factor, thus proving that the
axiomatic dynamic state is the source of all phenomena.
         The harmonic state constant Kx provides the first
connection to the Mps mass in a coherent and maximum density
state, has the Gmr value that enables the formation of the limit of
any interactive stress rise, as:
                    Kx 7 RS     Kx (Gmr Gmr )
             Mps                                2.203694E-8
                      C               C
The Kx points, forming the continuum, group into a simultaneous
set of 23 = 8 to create the elemental field or object state and its
relation to the Mps state is:
                              101 x k
                      Mps             2.203694E-8
                                8C
The maximum limit in density rise, in the simultaneous mode,
induced by colliding, collapsing or compressive interactive states, is
derived from the gravitation constant Gsankhya which equals the
product of density into time-cycle2. Since Mps value forms the
maximum limit, the time-cycle and density too form the minimum
and maximum limit respectively. The minimum time-cycle tp can
be derived as the ratio of minimum displacement My times C
divided by the number volumetric expansions occurring within the
same period of a single cycle as (23-1) =7:
                              MyC
                        tp           5.696886E-44
                               7
The maximum density, being a limit, can be derived from
fundamental principles and checked for accuracy with Gs = t2
proportionality. The maximum increase in interactive rate per
period is C1+x over displacement k and the number of volumetric
expansions occurring simultaneously is 23-1=7 and therefore must
be applied logarithmically as:
                           1 x 7
                   Dp    (C   k)       4.569102E+96
Checking for correctness and accuracy:


                                                                  147
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                          2     (4.569102E+96)(5.696886E-44) 2
             2 Dp (tp )
                                                                             1
                 Gs                     1.482880E+10
The derivation of displacement ratio Lp proportionate to the Mps
value is time-cycle tp times the constant oscillatory rate C as:
                               Lp       Ctp           1.689560E-35
Since the maximum mass and density state Mps forms the
foundation of the gravitational principle, its acceleration too must
conform as the limit of the rate of change. The limit of accelerative
change Ap has been derived earlier as a set of invariant ratios.
                                 7               Lp
                          Ap                            5.205931E+51
                                 my           tp 2
Checking Ap through the gravitational equation:


            Mps                             2.203694E-8
      Ap                                                                5.205931E+51
           Gs Lp 2    (1.482880E+10)(1.689560E-35)2
It confirms the accuracy and logic of the axiomatic derivation. The
Mps equations can be rewritten in a number of ways to expose its
equivalence to parameters derived through alternate means. It gives
a measure of the strength of the principles involved. There are ten
variations given below that provide the exact solution.
The basic Pho cycle at source:
                          Kx 7 RS           Kx (Gmr Gmr )
              Mps                                                  2.203694E-8 .
                            C                     C
The fundamental field cycle: (It is based on 8 units forming the
simultaneous ‘centre of mass’ forms that initiates ‘gravitation’).
                                        101 x k
                              Mps               2.203694E-8
                                          8C
Compressive limit cycle:
                                                 3
                           C   x 2
                                                              7
                                             C          C1 x k 2      Mps
                                    7
                     C1 x k             2

Time sequence cycle:
                                               3
                                            tpC G         Mps
                                                 s
Volumetric mass density cycle:
148
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                                  3
                                Lp Dp    Mps

Acceleration Flux density cycle:
                                 2
                               Lp ApG     Mps
                                     s
Displacement cycle:
                                  2
                               LpC G     Mps
                                    s
The Coherent Nuclear cycle limit:
                                2
                           PMPxC 7 RS       Mps
Todc field cycle:
                                   3 C1 x
                        My C1 x                  Mps
                                     7 7
Unit field cycle:
                       5           5
                    MyC 7 RS    MyC (Gmr       Gmr )   Mps
The high density coherent field is symmetric, self-similar and scale
invariant. Therefore every point, in terms of the unit My can be
precisely identified, defined and connected to the continuum of
space. The coherent state is symmetrical and can be checked for
correctness in both simultaneous and sequential modes of
interaction.
         Having established that the fundamental perpetual
harmonic characteristics are not affected by steeply varying density
values within the coherent region but a change only takes place at a
rate more than two. Hence the coherent state of the nuclear PM
state too displays gravitational qualities of acceleration and spin as
shown in the following sets of equations, again with dimensionless
ratios as results:
         The displacement ratio forming the incremental volumetric
state depends on two increasing parameters. Increasing the core
Mps volume by one provides ratio of 2 which gives a radial
increment of 21/3-1= k-1= 0.259921. Since it forms the first
detectable or observable parameter, it should be set to one so that
all subsequent ratios form a numerical relationship more than 1 and
can be meaningfully evaluated. By setting it to one, the
unobservable and undetectable coherent core attains a relative
measurable ratio of (1/(k-1))3 = 56.947628. Again since 1/(k-1)

                                                                  149
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
forms the incremental gap by the expanding volume but because it
is set to one, it represents the ratio of compression with reference
to the expansion value set as a unit. Compressive action of
interactive counts gives C1+x as the larger value. Hence the radial
displacement per interactive cycle as Rp is:
                                   k 1
                        Rp                5.089059E-15
                                  C1 x
The density of the PM state Pd can be derived as:

                                    PM
                         Pd                 1.270436E+16
                                    Rp3
The time-cycle can be derived by using the Gs relationship, as Pt:
                                     Gs
                         Pt               1.080380E-3
                                     Pd
The rate of volume change at flux density rate Gs as (Vp)3 is and
Vp as:
                             3     PM
                        Vp                  1.045160E-34.
                                   PtGs
                                 Rp
                        Vp          4.710433E-12
                                 Pt
The inward acceleration inward, due to interactions acting
simultaneously as the PM mass state is proportional to Pt2 is:
                                  PM      Rp
                    Pg                             4.359977E-9
                                 Rp 2Gs   Pt 2
The maximum interactive stress St in space is proportional to the
maximum mass state Mps and minimum cyclic time tp and its
numerical value is:
                         Mps          3
                   St                C G         3.868244E+35
                          tp            s
Since interactive counts indicate the state of stress it rises inversely
with cycle displacement time. A number of scientists notably
Chandrashekhar and Sakharov derived the St value. While the St
limit has been used to predict many aspects of phenomena in the
macro environment, Sankhya theory establishes the connection for
the perpetual oscillatory characteristics of the nuclear PM state.
The flux density at the PM boundary and the St limit interactively
maintain a perpetual balance as shown:

150
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
         Kx                          Kx          2
                  St    Mxe                  C       3.40240285660824E+52
      PxPgRp 2                  PxPgRp 2
The maximum stress St and Mxe as maximum energy per cycle,
has a direct connection in deriving the Universal boundary as the
limiting distance of stress transmigration. It depends on three
factors of cyclic time, cyclic interactive counts and the maximum
sequential potential available to allow the stresses to transmigrate to
the Universal boundary as its limit. The maximum sequential or
transmigration potential released when coherence is broken is
logarithmically proportional to one interactive cycle of 10 or log 1.
Therefore the transmigration interactive count rises to 10C but as it
occurs at the instant of collision between two interacting states, its
log value 9.472136 must be used. The Todc in space is 1/C3 and
the transmigrating density of interactions is DD as:
                              log(C ) 1
                       DD                   3.631115E-25
                                 C3
The transmigration time cycle in space is TT, derived from Gs as:
                                Gs
                       TT                 2.020845E+17
                                DD
The maximum distance the stresses can transmigrate per cyclic
period is RU:
                        RU     CTT        5.993340E+25
If the oscillatory displacement is a meter per interaction in a time
of one second then the distance RU is covered in TT seconds or
about 6.4 billion years. The precise distance is RU-(TTSl) as a
meter wavelength transmigrates only C-Sl meters per second
         The Universal mass state MU per cycle can be derived as
follows:
                                3
                       MU     RU DD        7.817120E+52
The total value of interactive stresses acting simultaneously within
the volume RU is MU kgs if one count of interactive displacement
is set to one meter acceleration per second yielding a force of one
kg of mass per cubic meter. The expanded state stress value as
mass MU is the cumulative number within cycle time TT, at a peak
stress rate of St in one cycle time of C. Similarly, the compressive
stress mass Mps is the merged value in cycle time tp , at a peak
stress rate of St in one cycle time of C. Hence both the expanded
and compressive level achieves the peak stress rate, though with

                                                                            151
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
different mass and cycle time values. However, applying the same
logic the coherent PM peak stress value is only:

                    PM
                           1.5499 E   24
                    Pt
         Since St is 35 orders above unity in time cycle tp but PM
is 23 orders below, in time cycle Pt, the low PM peak stress state
forms a well that is large enough to absorb the expansive cycle of
the Mps/(Mep) exchange, but not enough to crossover and
radiate. Therefore, regardless of the amount and duration of
radiated stress counts, it is always absorbed. Hence there would be
not be enough positive stress potential to cross the 7/k-1
displacement gap and re-radiate. Nature has ensured that the night
sky will eternally remain dark and nor will the thermal state exceed
the Tk level. There is axiomatic mathematical certainty that
spontaneous ‘runaway’ stress transmigration condition can never
occur for 2/3 of the stress counts in space are at a density that
varies from 15 to 96 orders.
                         Mep    Pt          7
                                                  0.245971
                         Mps   PM          k 1
           The PM negative stress well permits a number of important
conclusions to be drawn. The dynamic field in space is an absorber of interactive
stresses and photons are holographic stress vortices. The negative stress well
provides the potential to contract space rather that expand it. The inward
pressure further ensures that the coherent state is not broken spontaneously and
stress transmigration characteristics remain stable and consistent. The negative
stress further strengthens the logic that simultaneous interactions merge and the
reduction in stress count causes gravitational acceleration towards a lower
interactive rate or decreasing stress levels.
           The RU is the distance to which interactions could
transmigrate to but in every interaction Sl must be subtracted, for it
constitutes a fractional period of an interaction when the
compressive acceleration increases the potential to transfer the
stress across the Kl gap, to the next expanding boundary. This
delay is introduced only when the coherent state is broken by an
accelerative displacement during the transmigration process. The
limit of stress transmigration distance as RU would be short by
1.771081E+8 meters or the time in seconds would be increased by
0.597 to cover the total distance. As has been mentioned earlier,
152
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
this factor has been has been detected and recorded as the Pioneer
anomaly where radio signals have shown an anomalous delay of
exactly Sl.
         Recalling the derivation of CL, its value was gave the ratio
of the transmigration of stresses as photons, across the continuum
of space, has an infinite number of resonant nodal states created by
the varying flux density in the field around galactic, stellar and
planetary bodies. It introduces a periodicity in the interactive
transmigration rates, which sum up algebraically to create spectral
shifts related to distance. The periodicity is caused by the Pho
states compressive increase or expansive decrease in the oscillatory
displacement distances. The compressive value above a threshold
level initiates the transmigration process and increases the
interactive count rate above C. The increase needed to initiate the
transmigration is process is a cycle of ten interactions which raises
the rate to 10C during the period of acceleration, within the
boundary of the Pho oscillator. Therefore theoretically a blueshift
of 10 times is possible.
         Therefore every photon received must be at a higher
potential and interactive rate, than the resonant state C. Since the
value of C is CL due to the Earth’s distance from the Sun, every
light wave from any other stellar or galactic source must have a
ratio larger than 214 or Ro/Rs, which leads to a lower potential
and count rate or frequency, as the equivalent of CL. The Earth is
very close to the Sun, compared to the distance of stars, from
which light could be received on the Earth. It would have an
interactive count rate greater than C but certainly less than CL. The
value of the measured velocity of light is blue shifted by 1.010845
or log(1.010845) = 1/213.45= Rs/Ro. However, though light
received from distant stellar bodies will still have a smaller blue
shift than 1.010845 yet, compared to CL, it would show a red shift.
The expression for spectral shift of interactive rate or frequency, if
Rs is radial displacement of source and Ro is displacement distance
of receiver, then Sf is:
                     2 Rs                             C
               Sf         ..........CLn 10Sf ......... Ln 1 z
                    x3 Ro                              C
CLn is blue shifted or at a higher frequency than C. Photons from
any stellar source must have a higher interactive count rate and the
ratio of shift 1+z, as log(1+z) gives the ratio of Rs/Ro. But

                                                                  153
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
astronomical observation on Earth, have always been compared to
CL instead of C, for this axiomatic rate has not been derived so far.
Therefore all light from stellar sources would seem to be red
shifted as a consequence of taking the CL value as a base. The
comparison is shown below:

                        2    Rs                                 2           Rs
                        3   Ro m                                3       Ro m
                        x                                       x
              c    10                                      10                          C
 RSZ m                                        BSZ m
                        c                                               C


      RSZ m         1                                BSZ m
         1.000000                                               0.010845
         1.010622                                        1.078761·10 -4
         1.010675                                        5.420765·10 -5
         1.010693                                        3.619874·10 -5
         1.010702                                        2.717173·10 -5
                                                 2        1         2              1
          m       24 114    814     SZ m
                                                     3    m             3        214
                                                 x                  x


                                   0.04




                              SZ m 0.02




                                      0
                                          0              500                1000
                                                          m
           Fig: Point when Redshift changes to Blueshift.
        RSZm is the reds shift value Astronomers always measure,
while BSZm is the real blue shift needed for light photons to
transmigrate to distance Ro(m). SZm shows the comparative
difference on the Earth. The meaning of the blue shift can be
clarified further using the Sankhyan concept of simultaneous

154
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
interactive states merging to create the nuclear coherent potential
in the Pho state. Light or any electromagnetic Photon is a three
dimensional stress vortex and it must be accelerated sufficiently
greater than the Kl factor, so that it is transferred to the adjacent
Pho oscillator. The second Pho repeats but with a loss of one
interactive count as the delay needed to initiate the transmigration
process to the next unit and so on. Stress vortices will move
towards another only if the destination count rate is less than its
own. As the count rate increase with acceleration, within the same
oscillatory boundary, the counts merge or superpose to maintain
coherence but the number of counts per interaction increases thus
raising the potential as an increase in occupation density. Because
many counts are merged in the coherent state of one cycle of ten
interactive counts, a sequential transmigration process is driven by
the simultaneous potential of one logarithmic count which is 10 in
numerical counts. The driving potential source is the Pho
oscillatory combination, illustrated as the triad, where the
Mps/PM/Px exchange creates a displacement/spin/angular
momentum potential of 2 1017 simultaneous counts in the
coherent state. A log one cycle reduction in potential count




                        Fig: Merging counts.
increases interactive counts by 10 units, which then releases a set of
2 1017 x 10 = 2 1018 , reciprocal of which is 1.591681E-19 or the
value of an electromagnetic charge of a volt in Physics. In the
diagram ‘merging counts’ compressive acceleration piles up counts
as a potential where there are more interactive work potential
hidden within one cycle, which gives the erroneous impression that
wavelength decreases and frequency increases. The superposed
state is a potential but when it is accelerated in the stress
transmigration process it is termed a current or a radiation of a
photon, over a distance involving time. The physical picture in
substantial space is that stress rises and falls cyclically, which

                                                                  155
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
creates transmigration if time is involved. The interactive
displacement distance the photon covers through the Pho
transmigration process is, assuming that 1 meter displacement with
acceleration of 1 metre/cycle is involved:
       Mps        17
              2 10 .....Trd     2 1017 2 1017 1        5.654398E+17
      PMPx
         The Trd value is the exact distance a photon can
transmigrate through, for the loss of a cycle of ten counts. Every
repetitive distance undergoes a similar reduction in potential until it
reaches the limiting distance RU. The number of interactive cycles
needed to cover the RU limit is:
                               RU
                       Rpd             1.059943E+8
                               Trd
         The proof for the Rpd factor lies in Hubble’s findings.
While the limit of photon transmigration is RU, Hubble chose an
arbitrary distance of one megaparsec Ly=3.017173E+22. By
comparing RU with Ly, Hubble’s quest of expansion of space is
derived precisely, but contrarily as the loss of potential over that
distance, being Hy:
                              Ly
                    Hy           Trd     5.335975E+4
                              RU
        Currently Hy is guesstimated to be around 55000 from
various scientific institutions. Therefore Hubble had actually
discovered the ratio of potential-drop to transmigrating-distance as
Hy, which involved an increase in cycle time, proportional to
potential drop. But the Tk value was considered to be the residual
temperature from the Big Bang hypothesis and its importance, as
the source of the PHO state, has not been realised nor is there an
awareness of it even now. The Tk value, though hidden, provides
the perpetual dynamism at the core and affects basic states in
space. Therefore Hy times Tk = 1.493026E+5 cycles as potential
lost in transmigrating across Ly. The loss of potential was a
reduction of the coherent and merged count which was hidden
because it was a simultaneous activity. The ratios Trd /TT or
C/Rpd should equal Tk as the ratio KV/Px of expanded to
coherent states. But Trd is the potential change that initiates
transmigration and hence it must equal a changing Tkn to maintain
balance, which would prove the correctness of the Rpd or Hy
factor.

156
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                                              2   1
                                                      Trd
                 Tk             Kx 2 2n An                  2.798037
                      n                               TT


                          0.1
                                                             Tfn
                                                                 2.861277
                Tk n 0.05                                        2.791257
                                                                 2.774074
                                                                 2.769798
                           0
                                0        2            4
                                         n
         Fig: Volumetric Rate of change at the basic level.
At about one interactive cycle the difference is balanced to
maintain a higher volumetric change rate than Tk, which
maintained the coherent and un-manifest state in balance. It is
pertinent to state here that a difference of 2.798-2.718=0.08
difference in the volumetric change rate in space was sufficient to
provide the potential difference of Trd by Rpd times to
transmigrate a photon through RU. The Rpd drop was caused by
10 interactive counts in one cycle that kept the oscillatory volume
changing 2.718 times per cycle. The product gives the maximum
simultaneous potential necessary to initiate the transmigration
process:
                Rpd       2.798 10      10C       MaxPotential
         The various factors equal the maximum oscillatory
potential needed for initiating an accelerative state. It shows that
the equations, starting from the source of radiation to maximum
destination distance, balance the changes in potential and also
transmigrations rates. The critical equations of balance, to be
derived later, will prove the foregoing to be correct and accurate.
         The Pho state in space affects the stresses transmigrating
across it in two ways. When stresses add up harmonically it creates
simultaneously interactive states with a higher potential at periodic
intervals as nodal states. Because of the higher potential, it
amplifies stresses that resonate with it. Hence photons at various
oscillatory rates transmigrate as agglomerate states that show
different spectral characteristics. Due to the Pho state, there are
                                                                            157
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
certain radial distances at which the algebraic additive process
amplifies the interactive rate of stresses and in between these nodal
states, the opposite expansive mode, reduces it. While the
harmonic states are innumerable, the 1 to 8 ratio of volumetric rate
of change is important, distinctive and identifiable. Linear
harmonics are easy to deal with mathematically. But in the three
dimensional space continuum, the linear and area aspect merge into
the volumetric oscillatory rates of change, as the latter have density,
centre of mass and coherent state characteristics that swamp the
other two.
          The Rs/Ro factor for all stellar bodies affects the
fundamental state of space universally till the RU limit. The next
important harmonic spectral shift occurs at the coherent boundary
of the Pho state. Since all formulations in Sankhya are
dimensionless and scale invariant the derived ratios act in the same
way regardless of size but in proportion. Hence the following
derivations apply to nuclear state like the Proton / Neutron and
also molecular, stellar, galactic mass states but the cyclic time factor
would vary according to size, volume and mass. The axiomatic
factors that contribute to harmonic resonances in space are the
interactive count states in the expansive mode, which occurs when
the simultaneous coherent state breaks synchrony to the sequential
resonant state. Derivation is shown below and the bracket shows
values familiar in Cosmology:
                           1 22
                                        x3
                    B1              1        0.118034
                             2           2
        The B1C = 3.500604E+7, ( 35000 Km ) is the most
ubiquitous red shift parameter that is initiated at the boundary of
solid bodies but is also the weakest in terms of potential drop. It
can be detected as a direct in-line measurement as it is can be
occulted by the shorter interval red shifts.




158
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                    3             3             3             3
                n       (n   1)       (n   1)       (n   2)
                    6.000000
                 12.000000
                 18.000000
                 24.000000
                 30.000000
                 36.000000


                    Fig: Red shift factor in space.
         The table shows the red shift factor derived as a common
differential in a volumetric expansion process. The odd radial
expansion at 1, 3 and 5 as 6, 18 and 30 cannot form resonant
harmonics and must be excluded. Hence 2, 4 and 6 as 12, 24 and
36 create resonant harmonics, which also beat with one another as
2/4, 4/2 or 12/24 , 24/12 and fall in to the same displacement
band, which forms into simultaneous resonant nodes that amplify
the absorbed stresses. The 6/2 , 2/6 or 36/12 , 12/36 also
provides a resonant red shift at the third level, though 1/3 does not
form a resonant harmonic. The table below gives the set.
Factor          Red shift interval Measured             Cited
2 x 6 = 12      12/C=2.55E+7           25,600 Km        recorded
6/2 x 6=18 18/C=1.69E+7                16,400 Km        recorded
4 x 6 = 24      24/C=1.27E+7           12,800 Km        recorded
6 x 6 = 36      36/C=8.49E+6           8,100 Km         recorded
         Fig: Table of Resonant Harmonic Redshifts.
The number 8 factor, forms into a density state 2 as 23 = 8, and it
repeats within the previous set but with a higher density and
consequent delay, that broadens out the cyclic base.
         The frequency of light at 1 meter wavelength on Earth is
greater than the axiomatic rate of the Pho state by a factor
1.010845 or the log(1.010845) = Rs/Ro, Rs being the radius of
the Sun and Ro the Earths orbital distance. Hence the differential
displacement is a blue shift, as it is greater than C by C (.010845) =
3.216491E+6 or 3216 Km. This factor is not known in Physics yet
but if the displacement interval is applied to all the measured values
then most of them would show a blue shift, albeit small, for the
Sun is closer than other stellar bodies. The graph showing the
anomaly is on page 122.
                                                                  159
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
          All dense bodies with centre of mass characteristics stellar
and planetary bodies are in a coherent state and any radiative
transmigration of stresses (photons or phonons) must break the
symmetry by the Bl factor. Recalling that the break from the
coherent state was initiated when the cyclic time exceeded a
threshold, the Planck’s constant was derived from the smallest time
period, which applied to maximum density regime. Taking that
critical time as a ratio, the first set of conditions which create
resonances and therefore a spectral shift, by absorbing stresses
harmonically, can be derived as follows. A ratio of circumference
to radius is 2 raising it to the third power as the Todc rule, (2
sets the coherent limit. Dividing by the same value, breaks the
coherent state and reduces the index to 2 as (2      Dividing it again
by the incremental displacement ratio (k-1) required to expand the
volume twice, gives ((2 (k-1))-1 = 150.886 as the ratio Tc, that
breaks coherence and allows transmigration to commence.
          All planetary stellar and planetary bodies have a standard
density of Tc2 = 2.2766641909E+4, which yields an orbital time of
about 84 minutes on earth. The derivation of Planck’s constant
where the same ratio enabled the quantisation of energy states into
units of mass Therefore, the period sequentially will cover a
distance of C/150.886=1.965E+6. In Cosmological terms it is
Cz=1.965E+6 where z= 1/150.886 and the red shift factor 1+z=
1.00663. Approximately, the spectral lines would show a shift
equivalent to 2000 Km displacement.
          There are two important periodic resonances caused by the
Pho state at the core level of space when the continuum in the Tk
state changes to the field state. Recalling the P and E factors as
compressive and expansive ratios that maintain the Pho state and
applying the ratio that changes the radial stress into linear
displacement in the simultaneous state as (7/2 )2 and applying it
to the compressive differential:
                                   2
                              2
                     C P 1             7.198913E+4
                               7
The displacement interval 72000 is an absorber of stress. But the
next half wave expansive displacement is a resonant radiator of
stress as:


160
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                              2
                         2         1
                C P 1                    3.74228 E   4
                          7       k 12


Factor                 Red shift interval   Measured         Cited
(Px/KV)RU/TT           1.09E+8                               new
X3/2 C                 3.5E+7               35,000 Km        recorded
2 x 6 = 12             C/12=2.55E+7         25,600 Km        recorded
6/2 x 6=18             C/18=1.69E+7         16,400 Km        recorded
4 x 6 = 24             C/24=1.27E+7         12,800 Km        recorded
6 x 6 = 36             C/36=8.49E+6         8,100 Km         recorded
(2/x3) +Rs/Ro          C/92.2=3.2E+6        3200 Km          Blueshift
Kl symmetry            C/151.8=1.96E+6 2000 Km               recorded
C/4.12E+3 Pho          7.199E+4             72 Km            recorded
Ly/(TTx2.718)          5.49E+4              55 Km            Hubble
C/7.92E+3Pho           3.742E+4             37 km            recorded
                    Fig: Table of range of Redshifts.
         The primary axiomatic set-of-factors are presented as a
table above. There exist numerous harmonics, which can be
identified through appropriate algorithms. Recalling the Sankhyan
concept of space, comprising identifiable components in the Pho
state, there is no uncertainty in dealing with its structure as being
either ‘open or closed’ or about its origin and demise. As far as the
observer is concerned space and its elemental contents remains the
same eternally, for all the factors he deals with is its deviation from
the coherent, resonant and self-similar perpetual harmonic
oscillatory state, in two modes of simultaneous and sequential time
cycles. Since it has been shown that the oscillatory interactive rate
is a constant C counts per cycle of ten axiomatic counts, the
variation in cyclic period as time is to be accounted for. Hence all
analytical procedures are dimensionless, scale invariant and
uniformly applicable universally. The oscillatory rate being a
constant the ratio length/time is always a constant, which exposes
the concept that frequency is a density factor or the number of
displacements occupying a single displacement interval. The Pho
state maintains the balance eternally by extending the process of
interactive decay in infinite time cycles for axiomatically resonance
can never be lost when the linear and radial displacement reach the
1+x =1/x ratio as the equivalence of the simultaneous and

                                                                   161
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
sequential states where in the compressive and expansive stresses
are equal in both cycle time and displacement interval.
          The size and cyclic lifetime of the observer’s Universe is
dictated by the yardstick he creates for it. The dynamic state of
space absorbs all higher count interactions into its coherent state at
the Tk volumetric rate of change. Locally the interactive rate can
only rise by 10 times the normal rate of C and the increase decays
in TT seconds over RU meters distance. Hence every observer
forms the centre, from which he can only measure, observe or
detect a standard RU distance as his horizon, regardless of where
he is in the Universe. It is the distance that stress transmigrates in a
period of time cycles consistent with density of interactions in
coherent space. It does not constitute the limiting distance or
boundary radius of space. For where the observers’ RU ends,
another Universe’s boundary could well commence from there.
          In the next chapter rigorous proof will be derived to
establish the reality of space as the repository of the full potential
that initiates the entire gamut of manifestation with a single
axiomatic law that is self-generating, self-consistent, self-similar and
self-sufficient to maintain the Universal process perpetually
dynamic, eternally fulfilled, as the acme of perfection.




162
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
           Axiomatic Universe is Eternally Dynamic
All the proofs for the foregoing derivations are given here, to
establish the dynamism of the Pho state which forms the source of
all phenomena. While the numerical solutions set out, provide
factual proof of the mathematical logic used to derive the
propositions, the conceptual basis of the functioning of
phenomena in the continuum of space with identifiable
characteristics, needs rigorous, logical confirmation through
extraordinary methods of integrating the entire Universal
manifestation process.

                       Kx                    tp
                                                    My
                  Mp
                                                    Ne
                  s
                                             PM
                     St



                            Fig: Method of Proof.

         Rigorous proof is established by the concept shown in the
diagram above. The main or source equation My, forming the
centre, is connected through a constant with an ascending order of
index, to six peripheral equations derived through alternate modes
that also increase in value similarly. Its accuracy, logic, scale-
invariance and self-similarity is ascertained if the source value at the
centre forms an accurate and singular factor bridging all the twelve
connected equation by the same constant with a sequential
ascending order of index values. The only ‘free’ or theoretically
hypothesised factor, forms the central or source proposition, as My
in Sankhya. All the other twelve are rigidly conditioned by its value.
Since all the twelve connecting spokes have to be ascending orders
of index of a single constant that is also factored by the source,
there is theoretically validity of the derivational process. The value
of My being in the order of minus 51, the conceptual and
numerical error will indeed be small if other factors equate
precisely.
         The following derivation will provide the key role the Pho
state plays in controlling the unified field in a precise mode. The
                                                                    163
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
relational parameter, density, connects the mass content of stresses
with the volumetric space it occupies. Further it has been shown
through axiomatic derivation, that the merged cycle time along two
axes are related to density through Gsankhya, the universal interactive
constant of compressive stresses in the simultaneous state. It
cannot change because it is an axiomatic ratio of the oscillatory
interactive rate C at which the Pho state is maintained perpetually.
Hence the proof has two modes of presentation as relative density
and relative cyclic time period between dynamic states. Density
deals with simultaneous interactions in coherent states and time
cycles connect sequential interactions to the same source as flux
density. The three important density states, already derived, are Dp
as the compressed limit parameter, DD as the expanded limit value
and Pd as the oscillatory state of the Pho ensemble of Pn, Pm and
PM. In the sequential mode tp2, Pt2 and TT2 are equivalents of
flux density as Gs= t2. Further, radial length / time-cycle2 gives its
second rate of change as an accelerative parameter that implies
stress, force etc. Comparing density or time-cycle2 with any other
parameter should lead to the same solutions. However it is easier to
calculate density as the ratio of real parameters, whereas cyclic time
has to be extracted through analytical processes.
         The ratio Dp/DD can be polarised into two modes as
(Dp/DD)1/3 and (Dp/DD)2/3. In the coherent state, the
symmetry is maintained and hence comparing sections within it,
should yield the same solution but as the reciprocal of the other.
The simultaneous Dp factor, is compared with the sequential DD
factor, which is in a coherent state in space. Similarly Pd is the
coherent resonant factor in the Pho state. Polarisation ratio should
equal the potential change ratio, when it occurs simultaneously,
within equal time periods. Therefore comparison of these three
should yield a simultaneous ratio of log 2/3 (volume to area) if it is
totally symmetrical but as resonant dynamic space has a delay of
two interactions per cycle it yields a ratio Ge, not 2/3.
                               1/ 3
                          Dp          DD
                   Ge                      0.664790
                          DD          Pd
        The ratio Ge is the Universal dynamic coupling constant in
maintaining compressive and expansive regimes in resonant
balance. It is the controlling factor for the Pho, electromagnetic,
nuclear and the Universal boundary and also as the TriGuna
164
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
interactive algorithm in Sankhya. Ge is almost 2/3 but the
deviation is to due to the time cycle of the interactions in the PHO
state or the interval when compression changes to expansion. Had
Ge been 2/3 the coherent PM state would not have been able to
achieve resonance to maintain the PHO interactive exchange
involving Pm and Pn states at the core and the lepton group of
Mep, Me and Mee at the boundary. The difference in ratio
between 2/3 and Ge must be kept in control by the PHO state. If
2/3 is reached the resonant state is lost and breaking the coherent
phase would need an external input that would exceed the BlC
factor, which certainly brings in dependence on anthropomorphic
concepts. Again the delay must not go below the ratio Ge, for
spontaneous transmigration of stresses can commence that would
increase the rate of decay, resulting in loss of resonance. The
critical delay is Cd, as:
                               2
                         Cd        Ge   1.876906E-3
                               3
          The most important criteria is that in all the interactive
states which reach resonance, the delay Cd must never form a
resonant harmonic factor and the test would be to see if such a
harmony is at all possible to be reached. If resonance with Cd is
achieved the Pho state would decay at a rate greater than RS and
the coherence would be broken. Within the basic resonant
oscillatory rate C the compressive component is Cx and that ratio
yields the number of interactions per cycle as C/Cx or C1-x which
forms the resonant rate of expansion within the cycle. The ratio
(C1-x )Cd is a critical factor in every changing state of interaction, in
all the three modes, as it is a resonant state that bridges the
compressive and expansive activities exactly to maintain the Pho
state. While Cd relates to the stable and coherent PM state, the Pn
and Pm, states of compressive and expansive balance, change
proportionately to maintain the Gmr ratio required to sustain the
Pho state. Deriving the corresponding Cd states for the Pm and
Pn values as Cdm and Cdn would enable comparison and
confirmation. The BlC interval was derived earlier in relation to tp
as the limit of cyclic time period in coherent high density state Dp,
but the same interval applies to the coherent nuclear low density
state at the Pho level. Raising the coherent density requires altering
the BlC barrier, resulting in the Cda value forming a limit. The fine

                                                                     165
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
structure coupling constant in Physics is derived empirically and
equals the Cda in value. It bridges the compressive / expansive
interface at the nuclear boundary where interchanges of flux /
coherent mass density factors prevail as the operating parameter.
The derivation of Cdm for the Pm state is simple, as it should be
2/C1-x if perfect resonance is to be attained but it is not, as:
                 2   Dp 1/ 3 Rp3              C1 x
           Cdm                   DD                        0.999552     1
                 3   DD      Pm                2

      The Cdn factor for the Pn state is compressed at the
maximum rate of 7RS/2 , but it does not become resonant, as:
                          1/ 3                C1 x 2
                 2   Dp          Rp3
        Cdn                          DD                      0.982239       1
                 3   DD          Pn            7 RS

         When density rises above the Pn value, the BlC interval
must merge within the cycle so that the interactive count decreases
in proportion to the increase in mass. The Cda or the fine
structure constant reaches the limit indicated by the BlC ratio,
which shows clearly that the reciprocal of 2Gmr (as .28) is
exceeded by a large margin and therefore goes into the coherent
domain. A stable but higher density level is reached, which creates
the next level of a coherent, merged and dense particulate state.

       2     Dp 1/ 3 Rp3          C1 x         k 1            1
Cda                      DD                                           0.284655   0.28
       3     DD      PM             2          2             2
                                          2          k 1


 There are numerous ways to derive equations that prove the
required proposition in a coherent field state, as all the parameters
maintain its relative ratios, till the symmetry is broken. The stable
and critical Cd ratio is compared graphically with both Cdn and
Cdm at a resonant rate of 8 interactions per cyclic period and all
three cross-over at the same timing interval but at different
potential levels. However the Cda ratio, forming the fine structure
coupling constant, crosses over at 6 interactions per cyclic period,
indicating that compressive increase raises the potential and slows
down the rate.


166
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification


                               2
               1.656279




                               1
             log   Cd n

             log   Cdn n
                               0
             log   Cdm     n

             log   Cda n

                               1




               1.704807        2
                                   4          6       8              10
                                   4.000000       n       9.000000


              Fig: Universal Interactive Control Constants
The Pho state coincidence at 8 confirms that only the potential as
density, changes which is the equivalent of pressure and volume
changing reciprocally at the same temperature and though it is in a
dynamic state, the net work / energy involved equates to zero,
displaying the typical perpetual harmonic oscillator characteristics.
But Cda reaches resonance at 6, at a potential level between the
PM / Pm state, with a steep rise in density that transfers it to the
next level. It indicates that density has been raised by merging 2
counts, which increases the inward acceleration of interactions
proportionately, thereby maintaining that state. A spinning flywheel
does work but equates to zero because of its coherent state of
balance. It’s rate of decay of angular momentum depend directly on
its state of imbalance.
          The Cd and Ge ratios formed the control link with the
high density Mps limit and resonant PM states. Similarly there is a
controlling link between the Mps coherent boundary, formed by

                                                                          167
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
its radial displacement Lp3 and the Universal mass state MU. While
RU is the distance a photon can transmigrate due to the reduction
of the coherent potential by one cycle, it does not form a limit in
terms of the stress content in Universal space. The ratio of
maximum coherent mass MU and the minimum unit mass My
provides a measure for comparison with the ratio of the minimum
coherent volume at maximum density Lp3 with that of unit density,
for there is no known parameter specifying the Universal limit of
space. Since all values represent interactive counts, the first
interactive state represents the unit or base interactive density as
D1:
                                   3
                             2
           D1       1 22 1             0.280379248593737


D1 has the same value as (cos (2 10)2)3 and this equivalence has
been derived earlier. The MU/My ratio, indicates the maximum
number in a cycle and D1/Lp3 similarly provides the number of
volumetric changes per cycle. Both the ratios should have the same
relationship as the Pho characteristics but as the Universe’s limiting
displacement or radial boundary parameter in space cannot be
derived, the volumetric change per interaction as (7/k-1)3 times the
D1/Lp3 ratio should provide the control link, because (7/k-1)2
provides the link between the nuclear boundary (lepton) and its
core (hadron). Further, as the MU mass of Universal space is at a
low density DD, it is not a coherent state and therefore the
symmetry breaking factor BlC or Bl must form a part of that link
as a ratio. The MU/My ratio is a coherent state number whereas
the (7/k-1)3 represents the state where the symmetry has been
broken. This link provides the severest test for the correctness of
Sankhyan logic and also the most elegant proof for the derivational
concepts in Sankhya. The expansion ratio linking the two as Lxp is:

                   MU D1         Lp3
            Lxp                        5.01887141804214E-5
                   My Lp3        D1
        The Lxp linking ratio contains both simultaneous and
sequential interactive exchanges. A specific sequential cyclic ratio
should equal the Lxp ratio to maintain balance for the
simultaneous phase would merge and the counts would be hidden
168
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
within one cycle. The same axiomatic ratios that control the
nuclear boundary would also apply at the boundary of the
Universal mass limit but in its own time cycle.
                                                                                         3
                                                          3
                 k 1                 k 1 2                          k 1          k 1           1
                                                                                                          1
                  7                   7 10                             2          7           Lxp
                                                                    2

         Recalling that circularity is a function of the interactive
rate, the limit can be factored to establish the oscillatory rate at
which balance is maintained.
                                                                                         3
                                             3
                   2 2n An10                                                                                  3,4
   k 1       k 1                                                  k 1            k 1           1
                                                                                                         n            1
    7         7              10                                              2    7           Lxp
                                                         2 2n An10

The balance is maintained between 3 and 4 interactions per cycle.
Another elegant proof using the Pho algorithm is given below to
show the change over graphically between 3 and 4 interactive count
rate. The Lxp was obtained as a differential ratio operating
sequentially at the outer boundary whereas the Pho functions
simultaneously with its internal ratio of exchange RS:
                                                         3

                   k 1                                             MU        3   1 E
                                             1 k 1            1         Lp               RS       1.02041484195238
                                 1   3                             My            P 1
             2           1
         2       k 1         k 1

                            2.5
             2.10720996964787

                                                 2

                                         n
                    log Mn 100                1.5

                             n
                    log 2                        1

                                              0.5

             0.301029995663981 0
                                                     0              2             4           6           8
                                                     1.00000000000000 n                7.00000000000000



            Fig: Decay and Absorption of stress in Space
At the boundary, symmetry breaks because the potential is a
minimum and RS resonance is destroyed. The blue dashed line is
the normal RS slope of the Pho coherent boundary decaying in
infinite time cycles but when symmetry is broken it peaks at an

                                                                                                                     169
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
interactive rate of 4 and decays. When it crosses the blue line
between 4 and 5 it regains resonance and returns to 2, only to peak
at 4 again in an out of phase oscillatory loop. When symmetry
breaks the resonant state turns into asymmetric oscillations even at
the nuclear core Pn state, which radiates and decays, when there is
an accelerative interaction. The Pn decay time cycle, in minutes is
approximately 1/60Pt = 15.426.
         At the Universal limit RU, recalling that the photon would
have lost its accelerative potential from source in time TT or 6.4
billion years but takes about 25 billion years for its stresses to get
absorbed back into the coherent state of space at critical density
DD, which is shown graphically as the steep rise and fall at rate 4
along the x axis. The significance of the life and death cycle of the
photon assumes importance if it is realised that 10E+17 interactive
stress counts merged within it gives its holographic form,
containing the coded information of its source, which has the
potential to trigger a reaction till 25 billion years. It provides the
mathematical foundation for the Vedic theory of Karma, with all
its esoteric consequences of self organisation and spontaneous
evolution that affect all manifestation.
         The foregoing sections have dealt with the control factors
that link the high, median and low interactive stress density Pho
states in the continuum of space, as an integrated phenomenon.
The Photon state in Physics commences when an interactive
interval exceeds the value of Planck’s constant h, which comprises
about 17 orders of Mly states. However in the dynamic continuum
of space the limiting state My has the smallest stress count value in
a fundamental interaction between two components in space and
all other interactive states can be defined in terms of its counts,
including the mass of the Universe. Recalling the cycle has C
interactions and that the volumetric increase is 7 when the radius
doubles, the interactive count ratio per cycle would be (My) C/7 =
tp, which has been derived earlier in another way as tp = (Gs/Dp)
1/2. Since tp has been established as the limiting time cycle, C (tp)

= Lp (Planck length in Physics) attains the status of the limiting or
minimum displacement possible in any interaction. In the
continuum of space, the displacement distance Lp, acts as a rigid
section to display the highest density characteristics. It leads to the
conclusion that the unit component of space cannot be less that

170
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
Lp3. Recalling again when radius doubles the incremental ratio as
k-1 = .259921. Dividing ((k-1) / My) identifies the number of
interactive cycles involved in transmigrating across this gap. Since
the smallest displacement possible is Lp, the density of
displacements per interactive cycle is Lr:
          Lr = Lp ((k-1)/My) =3.26599354886648E+15
The Lr count is the maximum density of stable oscillatory counts
per cycle in the Pho environment that is always in a coherent state.
For Lr to initiate a transmigratory move it must break the coherent
state by accelerating Br=1.0065838 times equal to Lrm.
             Lrm = (Br) Lr=3.28749644902521E+15
The derivation of Lrm, as the density of displacement counts in an
interactive cycle, has been made from the fundamental limits
reached in a space with substantial qualities. It is extremely
important to note that Lrm stress count rate is the maximum the
observer can detect or measure for it is in the expansive or
sequential mode of transmigration caused by the Br acceleration.
The situation previous to the Lr state is in the transition or
equalising-interaction mode of balancing the Pho across the (k-1)
expansion gap in a resonant state. As already stated earlier the
preceding Lp parameter forms not only the minimum
displacement but also becomes the continuum wherein the density
is highest (Dp) and the enclosed volumetric mass Mps is the
maximum. Hence any transmigratory movement of stress before
the Lr state must be in contiguous or simultaneous counts of Lp in
the continuum of space. That is, the interactive stresses are so
intensely compressed that it acts like a rigid rod and transmigrates
instantly across that displacement distance. Therefore the smallest
volumetric ratio of space that is rigid and fulfils the characteristics
of solidity is Lp3. It confirms the conclusion arrived at in equating
the maximum ratio:
           MU/My = cos (2 /10)6/Lp3 = 1/ ((2x) 6 Lp3)
This implies that it forms the equivalent of the rigid state. The
singularly important conclusion with proof is that if My formed
the basic unit count, Lp3 too formed the unit volumetric state with
exactly the same proportionate ratio of maxima to minima. Since
its factors were C and tp, forming two important stable states as C3
(stable volumetric oscillatory count) and tp3 as the limiting Todc
parameter, logically confirming the limiting unitary characteristics

                                                                   171
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
of Lp3. From the foregoing it can be stated categorically that the continuum of
space is populated with components with a volumetric ratio of Lp3 which is
equal to Mps/Dp both of which have been derived very accurately and
logically through ten alternate methods as the limiting mass and interactive
stress density.       Reiterating, because of maximum density,
minimum cyclic time and minimum displacement characteristics
Lp attains the status of the smallest, stable linear form, in principle,
for single dimensional objects do not exist in reality. Then the real
volume of an elemental component of space cannot be less than
Lp3. If the observer chooses the meter and second as the standard
measure in meters per second where C is the oscillatory rate per
second in the Pho state, then the unit volume of a component in
the continuum of space will be Lp3 cubic metres.. All these three
parameters have been derived empirically in Physics too as the
Planck mass Mps, density Dp and length Lp but with the
correction for the value of C as CL. However the extraordinary
significance of these findings was lost due to the concept of space being a void.
           The ratio of the unit of interactive activity My and unit
volumetric state Lp3 provide further proof that confirms the
foregoing conclusion unequivocally. The Brd parameter defined
the numerical difference that separated the simultaneous from the
sequential interactive state or the continuum from the quantum and
in the process it vanished by merging and therefore was never
explicitly identified as a coupling or bonding parameter. Stating it
differently, the Planck’s constant h as energy / frequency played
the same role as the constant My that differentiated it as stress
mass / unit interactive count. Yet Max Planck derived h as a factor
associated with Planck length and Planck time. But Lp has been
shown above to have the properties of a stable unit or quantum
displacement in the continuum of space. An extraordinary aspect
of interactive phenomenon emerges by comparing h, Lp & My,
which is unknown in Physics
      h                 2                 h 7                    2
            Brd     2        k 1                     Brd     2        k 1
      Lp                                  my C 2
The Brd factor is the differential in cyclic period of the
simultaneous angular displacement and the resonant linear
expansion in the Pho state. Differential angular momentum is
converted to linear momentum and the cyclic time difference


172
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
between the two causes the expansive acceleration or compressive
deceleration. Since both ratios are equal and h is common then:
                   h/Brd = Lp = my (C2/7).
        The accelerative term Ap derived earlier was shown as
being equal to C2 / Lp and similarly 7 / My. Therefore rewriting
the equation as a ratio of h exposes a well known aspect of
phenomena that has not been exposed mathematically in Physics:
                 2                                                                2
         Lp 2            k 1                                    My C 2    2            k 1
                                            1                                                 7.
                 h                                                            h
         Further unequivocal proof of Sankhyan logic is given
below to show why the Planck’s constant must be exceeded to
radiate a quantum,

                 1
                 3
           Dp                       DD                           3
                                                            Rp           PM
          DD                                2
                                                        1
                               my C
                                    h
                         10
                                                                                  1.2587674883
                         ( PM           Pm) 2

                     1
                     3
            Dp                      DD                               3
                                                                Rp       PM
            DD                                  2
                                                            1
                                   my C
                                        h
                              10
                                                                                      1.2587674883
                             ( Pn       PM) 7 rs
The constant K=1.25992 must be exceeded to radiate but it is just
short of that value by a precise ratio 1/Tc that defines the
difference between a compressive and radiative state.

                                                1
           (k    1.25876748
                          )                         2                                     1
                                                            1.0067418085 1
                         1 x                                                             Tc
                         C
Interactive compressive stresses must act as a simultaneous unit
across Brd to equalise with the minimum displacement Lp. But in
                                                                                                     173
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
an expanding interaction seven quantised states are radiated
simultaneously to initiate the process of transmigration as (23 -1 =
7), when the interactive quantum h is externalised (within a cycle
or simultaneously). It contains (2 C) 27 interactive stress counts of
the unit My. If My is considered the mass of the quantum or
photon, radiation contains 4.9E+17 mass units which transmigrate
from node to node as a dynamic vortex containing compressive,
expansive and resonant stresses. Hence the spectrum of seven
states, as a set of harmonic oscillatory frequencies, is radiated and
observed as seven colours or energy density levels. The 2, 4 and 6
harmonics form simultaneous states with defined centre of action
characteristics as fermions, while the 3, 5 and 7 harmonics form
diffused sequential states as bosons. The process of transmigration
contains both aspects, which gives ‘particle and wave’
characteristics observed experimentally. If the harmonic
interactions occur within the period of a cycle or simultaneously it
creates the magnetic field state (recall the Gmr value 7Rs) but
commences radiative transmigration when that ratio is exceeded.
The harmonics 1 to 7 are simultaneous but would separate out as a
spectrum on commencement of transmigration:
                                    1
                            1
                                    2
                                   n
                                2.00000000000000
                                1.25000000000000
                                1.11111111111111
                                1.06250000000000
                                1.04000000000000
                                1.02777777777778
                                1.02040816326531


It is to be noted that the seventh harmonic resonates at RS as an
infinite decay factor.
          Recalling that Lr, as the density of displacement per cycle,
is the maximum and it would divide into harmonic states according
to self-similar interactive modes. The ratio of compressive increase
would be x while the corresponding expansive reaction would
equal x2 and if the resonant interactive relative location is to remain
constant as a nodal position then it must attain the Todc factor in
both the simultaneous and sequential interactive states as :
                  (x)(x2) = x3 = x-x2 = 0.236068.
Therefore the next resonant nodal count rate would be Lg:



174
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                          Lp ( k 1) x3
                   Lg                    7.70996491608270E+14 .
                               My
The Pho state limit of Gmr = 7RS/2 must form the limit of the
next nodal harmonic state as an axiomatic limit if it is to be
perpetually dynamic Lf:
                          Lp ( k 1)
              Lf                           4.57239096841307E+14
                        My Gmr Gmr
The limit for a Pho interactive displacement density is
                 log(C) = 2/x3 = 8.47213595499958
Therefore the interactive displacement density will reach the limit
at log(C) or at twice the oscillatory cyclic period which
volumetrically equals 8 units, which forms the base of a field count.
                          Lp ( k 1)
               Lw                        3.85498245804135E+14
                         My log(C )
The same limiting count value due to the compressive interactive
displacement density increase, as a reaction from the boundary,
keeps the Lw value stable. Emphasising that the derivation of Lr,
Lrw, Lg, Lf and Lw has been obtained from a space with
substantial characteristics has no meaning unless it relates to
experimental findings. Further the values depict density of
interactive stress displacements within the unit cyclic period. It
would cause the greatest surprise if the values of Lr to Lw are found equal to
the spectrum of frequencies of electromagnetic waves at the hydrogen atom
boundary. But it should not, for frequency is the reciprocal of time that will
decrease with increasing density of interactive states, which can only exist in a
substantial continuum of space but not in a vacuous void. Shown below is the
equivalence as proof.

Spectrum      Sankhya                Physics            E. volts
Lr            3.265994E+15           NA                 13.5959
Lrm           3.287496E+15           3.2894314E+15 13.604
Lg            7.709965E+14           7.7070000E+14 3.1874
Lf            4.57239E+14            4.5670000E+14 1.89
Lw            3.85498E+14            NA                 1.5937
Lph           3.6482E+14             Photoelectric      1.5187
                                     wf
          Fig: Table of Oscillatory rates at nuclear boundary.


                                                                            175
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
         Because space is thought to be a void, Physics has been
compelled to look at displacement rate or density per cycle as a
‘distance’ between nodes of waves with an interval in time, which
has been classified as wavelength. The proof given here will
confirm the Sankhyan concept of space as being the correct one.
         While Lr is the coherent state value that cannot be
measured, Lrm is detected when it begins to transmigrate. Lr to
Lg is classed as an ultraviolet spectrum, while Lg to Lf is the
normal visible light spectrum. The Lw value (Lg/2) merges with
Lg and cannot be detected. Other (1/2) n values of Lg would
merge and form nodes where the densities of interactive
displacements would rise proportionately but cannot be detected as
a change in rate because all the displacements as (½) n would have
merged with Lg. The Lw value forms the lowest threshold which
must be exceeded to radiate or transmigrate a ‘coherent vortex’ as a
particulate state like an electron. The photoelectric work function
commences from Lw. Compression / expansion change occurs at
interactive density Lw when the interactive count rate or
displacement density per cycle rises to Lph:
                   1 x         1 x
           Lph    C    7 RS   C    Gmr+Gmr =3.6482E+14
Because C1+x forms the maximum compressed stress count state,
transmigration can commence only after the 2Gmr = 7RS value is
exceeded though below that value work is being done within the
boundary which results in a change in the energy level but without
any radiation. Since the Pho has Pn and Pm states interactively
providing the oscillatory potential Gmr constantly, any excess
count is transferred to the boundary where the Me & Me states
initiate the transmigration process.

              Fig: The stress intensity in nodal states.




                 Mps/PMPx       C2 2 Gmr
                                                     2 1017




176
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
The diagram shows the nodal position or wave crest where
compressive stress is intense. Three identical equivalents are shown
at the same wave crest or node as simultaneously interacting
events. The ratio of two oscillatory mass states, the two axially
merged states and the simultaneous cyclic states, exist
simultaneously at every interactive nodal point. The concept
displays the real meaning of simultaneous interactive states where
coherent mass, sequential oscillations and centred ‘rotation’ are all
present as an intrinsic characteristic of the node or ‘particulate’
state. In the trough part the equality is broken in all three modes
and transmigration towards a lower count rate begins as a ‘wave’ of
changing parameters. It represents mass, charge and angular
momentum parameters in Physics with its particle wave duality and
the fermion / boson states defining spin / angular momentum etc.
         The fundamental quanta My determines the potential
level, the sequential time interval and the cycle density at which
transmigration or radiation commences. It is to be noted that
though all three states depict parameters with different
characteristics, the value of the interactive counts per cycle are
identical, displaying the extremely accurate level of unification. The
different states and its unified values are shown below.
              2            Mps                         2
   Ahs   2                              2                   18
                  Ahs                  C 2Gmr             10       6.28266458E+17
   Br    10               PM .Px                       10

                   My ( Ahs )          2
                                 2
                                               h   6.62619863E-34
                    Br RS         7
Another proof of the transition from the coherent and
simultaneously interacting state to the sequential or radiative state is
the 7/ (k-1) = 26.93 factor that also differentiates the proton /
electron boundary in the Pho state as shown below.
                                           1
                     Ne          h
                                                   26.9302314087
                     Lp         7 Lp
Reiterating, the top 3 equations of compressive, expansive and
resonant stress-states, corresponding to mass, radiative and charge
states are all equal in the coherent, rest mass state prior to the
commencement of radiation. The lower equation displays the true
quantum nature of My, for it must be accelerated by the angular
momentum component Ahs for the Planck’s constant h to emerge
as an ‘energy quantum’.

                                                                                177
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
         From the above, it is absolutely evident that though
Planck’s constant h is considered the energy quantum, in actual fact
My is the true fundamental quantum in a completely unified field,
for it determines the limiting mass, the Pho state and the cyclic
potential as of 18 orders as Ahs all of which almost equal the
Planck’s quantum. It underlines the error-potential in Physics when
dealing at that energy level, for the Planck’s quantum is not a true
elemental state. It may also emphasize the singular importance of
My, if it is realised, that it can factor with equal accuracy all three
states of compressive (mass), resonant Pho state (charge) and
expansive stress transmigration         (photon), whereas h can be
associated only with ‘energy’ or sequential photon states. Due to
the real nature of fundamental space-field in which the coupling
constant is Ge, the break in coherence by the Br factor releases an
expansive or accelerative vortex as a photon with an interactive
count value that had been hidden by the merging of two sets of
axial counts
                           (h)        C2
                     Ahs                 =1.32308452E+17
                           My         Ge
         Since the expansive state releases counts, the converse
must apply when compressive interactive states prevail. The Br
interval, which provides the logic for the empirical derivation of
Planck’s radiation constant, determines when exactly a
simultaneous interaction breaks out into a sequential one. The
converse process is when two interactive states become one or act
simultaneously within a cycle and is determined by the relationship
of the Todc factor in an expansive phase. Compressive self-similar
ratio is Cx whereas C is the number of interactions per cycle. The
sequential ratio is C/Cx. The cyclic time ratio is 2 . Recalling that
in deriving the fundamental time constant ratio Kx the basic field
state was identified as 23 = 8. Applying the Todc rule the ratio to
attain coherence or simultaneous compressive state is Fsc:
                            3          3       3
                       C          1        1
               Fsc                                 2.5737973E+6
                       Cx        2         2
If it is simultaneous and achieves coherence therefore two axes
must merge and the counts would vanish, leaving Alpha, the
reciprocal of the fine structure constant in Physics.

178
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
                         C 1 1                 C1 x
              Alpha                                      137.04339643
                         Cx 2 2               2 2
The alpha ratio above is based on a cycle time of 10 interactions
per cycle, whereas in Physics the measured value is taken across the
Pho state gap at the electron boundary and is therefore as shown:

                               1 x
                           C
                          22
                                                       137.0359374233
                          1
                                               1
                                     2
                     7     10
                                         10
                 k       1 2

The proof of the foregoing is obtained by an alternate method. The
compressive count per cycle is Cx and the incremental increase in
volumetric expansion ratio that must be countered is 7 (= (23-1)).
The ratio of change in relative area is 1+ (k-1)2 when doubling the
density of the coherent state. The product should equal Fsc.
                      C x 1 ( k 1)2 7 2               2.5738+6=Fsc

The logical compressive process proves that the fine structure
constant in Physics is an empirical measure of the axial change of
interactive rate whereas increasing density must be of the third
order. This proof provides unequivocal evidence for a space with a
substantial foundation and the above parameter could never be
derived in a vacuum.
         The maximum interactive stress count ratio per cycle is St
in the continuum of space. While every coherent state has St as a
determining factor, yet its existence as the most vital contributor to
the substantial qualities of space has never been identified, exposed
or proved for a very axiomatic reason. The constant Kx has been
derived and shown to be the sum of all the odd numbered
interactions in a coherent state that contributed to the limiting
displacement cycle ratio. Comparing Kx with St exposes a very
significant fact that logically explains how and why the maximum
potential in the coherent state has never been detected and that
process gives the most important and incontrovertible proof of the
existence of the substantial continuum of space. The neutral and

                                                                        179
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
coherent parameter Ne identified as the state prior to
transmigration or radiation provides the important clue. The
parameter RS as the indicator of a decay process in infinite time
must provide a logical reason for the non-detectability of St. The
final proof as Fp is given below.
                           St    Ne           2
                  Fp                      2           39.4784176
                           RS   KxRS
The most extraordinary proving parameter Fp, as the merged and
hidden factor in a coherent state, is proof beyond compare.
Compounding the surprise is the fact that ST, Kx and RS are
derived from axioms, without a single value taken from an
extraneous source. The conclusion that space has substantial
properties is ascertained by the above results because a void
certainly cannot produce a density parameter Fp but its coherent
state can imitate a void and hence the debacle in Physics. Besides,
these important parameters are unknown to the Physics academia.
It also validates the new Todc concept as a real principle in
confined domains operating through self-similar rules. The next
question to confirm the proof is the fact that is the asymptotic
limiting sum of sequential interactions and therefore has the
capacity to store infinite interactive time cycles simultaneously as
diminishing parameters:
                       2
              2
                                                           2
              A                                58
                  55                          2       20       1
                            1.34228795                              2.17603526
               St                                 2            St
The self-similar displacement parameter A55 indicates that at the
rate of 55 interactions per cycle the maximum stress St is equalised.
Similarly the resonant half waves at the 58th harmonic equalise with
St. The stress, St cannot be released spontaneously hence this
potential remains locked up in the continuum of space. The Pho
state alone has the potential but it is not enough to provide the 7
Ne units required for radiation.
                    PM Pm
                          alpha 2        1.......required ..7.
                      Ne
        The incontrovertible proof for Sankhyan logic is derived
below by identifying the real nature of the Pn state or the Neutron.
While in the Pho derivation it has been identified very accurately as

180
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
the simultaneous compressive-stage increment that balances the
sequential expansive factor as a lepton state or the electron. The
derivation below defines the precise change in the interactive rate
which increases the stress intensity to compress it into the
simultaneous mode as a Pn state or the Neutron. Recall the Fsc
factor, which showed that, on total synchronisation of interactive
rates along all three axes, it lead to coherence and thereby attained
the simultaneous state. In it, two axes values merge and vanish,
leaving the measurable alpha value.
                                   3
                       5       2
             10
     7                     2            Kx
 k       1                              Px                                                                     27
                   2                                                          27     Pn      1.6749276458 10
                                                    1.6749276451 10
                       3
                       C
It is an extraordinarily precise factor x3/2 =.118034 that reduces
the full cyclic count period of 10 /2 to the value shown below.
                                                5        2
                                   10
                                                    2
                                                                  1.5727637382
                                            2
It creates the Pn or Neutron state, which is extremely accurate.


                                                                              2
                                                                  7
                                                     Ne
                  MUON                                       k        1                  3
                                       Pn                                         G Rp
                                                        Pn        Pm
                                                                                               105.9630914208
                                                             Mep

                                                         3
                                                7            Mee 7
                                                                              PM
                  W boson                   k       1            Kx rs
                                                                                         80.6713695644
                                                             PM

                                                                  3
                                                         7            M ee 7
                  Z Boson                                                           PM
                                                     k       1        Kx rs
                                                                                                90.5505507212
                                                                      PM
                                                                          k


                                                                                                           181
               Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification




         Summarising, the PM state, centred on the (Kx/Px)
coherent and stable ratio forming the fundamental holographic
framework, is compressed by the simultaneous merging of
interactive counts along two axes to form the higher mass value Pn
state. Within the same cycle but at a different phase, the breaking
of coherence between two axes, releases interactive counts to form
the Pm state. This oscillatory exchange ratio, defined as (Gmr +
Gmr), keeps the Pho state in a perpetually dynamic state at the
nuclear core and at the same time it keeps the leptonic boundary or
the electron, in a state of resonant decay RS, in infinite time.

         The table below gives equivalent states in which St plays a
key role in conserving, absorbing and maximising the potential in
space in a number of related ways.
      Stress    Ratio            Process             Stress (Mass / energy)
      St        Mps/tp           impulse             Coh. Mass Density
      St        KxG/PMPx         Compression         Coh. Mass Spin
      St        KxPt2/PgRp2      Expansive           Coh. Mass Resonance
      St        KxRS72/MyC2      Resonant            Seq. Energy Transition
      St        KxRS(2p)2/Ne     Transmigration      Seq. Energy Radiation
      St        MU/TT            Radiation           Seq. Accelerative
The table displays the limiting stress St has a central importance in
all simultaneous interactions that are coherent, resonant and
expansive. The continuum of space is always at this stress level.
Physicists Chandrashekhar and Sakharov hypothesised that the St
term contributed to the elasticity of space and several formulations
exist on this concept. But as shown above it is a coherent
compressive stress contributing to mass characteristics in contrast
to sequential, expansive and transmigratory stress-states that
represent energy states in Physics.
From the foregoing proofs the coherent compressive St stress potential in space
remains constant and at the highest density. It leads to the unavoidable
conclusion that components in space at the highest density must have the
smallest displacement length per cycle as Lp. Being volumetric Lp3 must be the
relative dimension of a substantial ‘particulate’ state in the continuum of space.

182
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
As derived earlier the relationship of Lp3 to D1 the cyclic unit of space has the
same ratio of MU/My which forms an essential proof of conservation of
interactive counts, angular momentum and cyclic time. The mass Mps and
highest density Dp have been derived earlier as the limiting parameters. In
Physics these parameters have been derived and accepted as a part of Planck’s
quantum mechanics and principles and current theoretical understanding is
based mainly on the ‘energy quantum’ h which is counterpart of the Sankhyan
‘mass quantum” My. Coupled to the fact that the Ap St, Ne, h and Br
form an intrinsic interactive ensemble at the Mps boundary where the
displacement distance Lp makes it the most dynamic state in which, potential
changes by converting linear acceleration to angular momentum and vice versa.
All of which is carried out as coherent interactions in the simultaneous state
that cannot be detected. However evidence of this activity exists in the term
‘Planckian Foam’ in space. The unequivocal conclusion is that the continuum
of space is populated with components as Lp3 with mass Mps, density Dp,
inward acceleration Ap, cyclic displacement interval tp at the constant resonant
interactive rate C.
If an abnormal accelerative interaction reduces the potential, it absorbs any Ne
state with an excess count rate in the dynamic substratum, to attain the
balance. The ability to maintain a full stress potential provides the initiative to
transmigrate stresses below the radiation level which creates a gamut of esoteric
phenomena described as ESP etc. The mathematical formulation of the hidden
spectrum is derived in the next chapter.
           Further proof for the existence of the substantial
continuum of space exists in the laws governing gravitational
mechanics. Existing formulations primarily depend on mass and its
rate of movement as the deciding parameter at the macro level.
However at the nuclear hydrogen boundary a similar activity is
defined in terms of spectral characteristics connected with resonant
states. Sankhya logic establishes that both scale levels can be
defined by both methods with equal accuracy. Both Newtonian and
Relativistic formulations lack predictability of the spacing between
planets and its radius. The ‘harmony’ existing between the
planetary bodies can be defined and derived only through the Pho
principle that governs the entire dynamism existing in space.
Sankhya derivations provide the algorithm to derive the radius of
planets as an integrated characteristic governed by the rules that
determine the orbital distance and period of revolution. While
today’s gravitational mechanics calculates the paths followed by

                                                                              183
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
planetary bodies, dictated by mass concepts, Sankhya derives the
rate of stress transmigration of the components in space through
the Pho algorithm that provides the motive potential for any and
every movement of bodies in space as a consequence of the
variation of interactive density from a common centre.




             Fig: Spectral characteristics of Gravitation.
The dashed-line shows the spectral curve based on the Todc rule
as the ratio of the radial distance count to its third order period
raised to log 2 , as the stresses in space are always in a coherent
state, equal to (n/x3)2 . The red triangles depict the orbital
position of all the 9 Planets with reference to the spectral harmonic
curve. The proof of Sankhyan logical correctness is confirmed by
the symmetry and synchronisation of the two ratios, one calculated
and the other observed and measured.

Insert here Tc2 factor as density of all planetary
and stellar bodies forming the hard surface.
This proof should be a deciding factor in attaining scientific
conviction to make a paradigmatic shift towards a real and dynamic
space. The entire calculation is based on the periodicity of
sequential increment of radial distances, similar to the hydrogen
spectrum, which however uses energy differential as the criteria
since space is deemed a void.




184
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification




           Fig: The mass, planetary radius and acceleration g.
The graph above shows that the diameters of orbiting bodies are
determined by a similar law based on the density of the interactions
in space coupled to the volumetric resonances maintained by the
Pho state or the Gmr ratio. The red line in the graph displays
measured parameters as it is today. The green line gives the
theoretical derivation based on the application of the Todc rule in a
space that is operated in the Pho state. The dotted line gives the
theoretical projection based on the shift of Earth and Mars from
the position dictated by the green line due to two reasons. The
Earth and Mars moved closer to the Sun because the sixth planet
broke up and formed into the asteroid belt. The sixth position is
unstable as the planet diameters past that position increase to the
next harmonic. Had Mars been larger, as it should have, the sixth
planet would not have formed but its formation was a direct reason
in dwarfing Mars. Also another reason is possible for the earth too
should have been larger consistent with its position but might have
lost a moon as Mars, causing the astral upset. In the Sankhyan
concept of a scale invariant phenomenon in the continuum of
space, the mechanism based on the spectral characteristics of the
field is the correct method of defining gravitational principles for it
results in understanding cosmological processes. It also resolves the
question of how astrology was practised effectively, because it’s
enough to use the angular harmonic positions to see the influences
and the resonant period being constant the forecast of future
positions could be done accurately and confidently. Millennium old
Vedic almanacs are as accurate as modern ones.


                                                                   185
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
         The elliptical rigorous proof of the symmetry of stable
states and its Sanskrit names are given in the table below where
Ce = centre, Sp = spoke in hexagon, stab = stable state.
  Ce.   Sp.   Boundary        Stab.   Physics        Sanskrit   Stress-type
  My    C6    Kx              Kx      New            Purusha    Potential-max
  My    C5    Mps/7RS         Mps     Planckmass     Mahad      Coherence
  My    C4    (RS/St)0.5Kx7   St      CL3/GN         Linga      Maxdensity
  My    C3    PM Px (Pho)     PM      Nucleonmass    Prikriti   Massdensity
  My    C3    Me Px/const.    Me      Leptonmass     Vikriti    Fluxdensity
  My    C2    Ne 7/(2 )2      7Ne     Planckcon h    Vikaro     Radiate
  My    C2    Ne (7/2 )2      Ne      Neutrino       Bhava      Transmigrate
  My    C2    Lp 7            Lp      Plancklength   Krama      Unit length
  My    C     tp 7            tp      Plancktime     Yugapac    Unit cycle
  My    1     (2 )3           My      Photonmass     Vriti      Unit-point
      Fig: Proof of Self similarity, scale invariance and symmetry
The unit My state provides the numerical count values of
progressively increasing densities as Cn, which is the only way
interactive rates can be raised to increase interactive stress densities.
          The conclusion that space is real, substantial and
identifiable should not be a surprise. When any object is observed
or detected, it is space that is really detected but in the altered form
of stresses. Colours and forms hide the canvas in a paining but the
art lover little realises that it is only the altered ‘backing’ that he is
raving about. The change in viewpoint will be slow to come around
but the realisation that everything is only a hologram of stresses
with various densities and activity rate will make the shift in
paradigm. In Vedic parlance all phenomena is called ‘Maya’ or an
illusion and is not without a foundation in absolute Sankhyan
scientific terms.
           Within the coherent domain in space the sum total of
activity remains constant and conserved. The sequential
interactions can be detected or counted and the simultaneous ones
can be calculated. The super-symmetric state of space ensures that
the property of self-similarity and scale invariance allows the
observer to theoretically assess every dynamic situation using the
axiomatic and invariant relationship. A comprehensive table of
equivalents and invariants are given in the appendix to see the
symmetry and range of associations.
          Reiterating that while Sankhyan derivations are from a
radically different foundation, both in terms of conceptual logic
and the mathematical process followed in Physics, the numerical

186
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
congruence of results inexorably drives home the fact that the
continuum of space with identifiable properties has equal if not
more validity than the concept of space as a void or vacuum. The
question arises as to what are the advantages of making a
paradigmatic change on a vital aspect of Physics. The answer is that
exposing two thirds of phenomena hidden from human
understanding can give a tremendous motivation to humanity to
correct its focus and thereby gain the maximum advantage that the
substantial continuum of space can offer, especially in the realm of
extracting over-unity energy from the limitless dynamic source. The
secrets of developing technology using levitation and anti gravity
principles, is hidden in the benign sea humanity calls space. The
nascent change in the potential state has more to offer man in the
way of fundamental knowledge in ESP, genetics, astrology, event
forecasting and teleportation than intense radiation or explosion. It
opens the doors to infinite freedom and unlimited exploration of
the cosmic scene. The derivations in the following chapters will
identify the axiomatic mathematical basis for such advancement.

         What is the real difference in concept between current
physics and Sankhyan derivations? Fundamentally it is mode of
approach. Starting from one and additively reaching the maxima is
an unquestionable process of arriving at the limit. But if one creates
a limit by making assumptions and then fractioning it to reach the
elemental state has three uncertainties. The maxima, the elemental
and the derivational process are open to doubt. The case to point is
the fact that in Physics as of now there are a plethora of logically
disconnected states defining phenomena that we know arises out of
a single parameter. The statement in Physics that fundamental
interactions are four in number as forces with gravitational, strong
nuclear, weak nuclear and electromagnetic characteristics is in itself
a denial of the elemental nature of interactions. Whereas the
Sankhyan logical foundation rests on the elemental nature of a
perpetual harmonic oscillatory state that need not be started for it
could never be ended. The perpetual nature arises out of the
conservation of time in an activity that is equal and opposite at
each instant. This state is only possible with two equal components
in adjacent positions with freedom to collide, reverse and expand.


                                                                  187
           Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
In a sea of components, every two adjacent component fills this
criteria and therefore the interactive state continues perpetually.



Note: What Physics needs today is a benign creator who can
substantiate the concept of a Universe, beginning from empty
space, through an explosive Big Bang process that expands in a
vacuum and miraculously retracts to implode at the centre, to
restart the cycle. No engineer would have seeded the present
theories in Physics, for he would have been forced to make his
theories into predictable realities, whereas the ivory tower of
Physics is insulated from the real world by the grandeur and
loftiness of ideas far removed from the reality.
Children lap up fairy stories and so does the adult if the stories are
based on “Principles”. To an engineer, the stories of physics are
based on myths, magic and magnificence.

In current mainstream physics, a Theory of Everything would unify all the fundamental
interactions of nature, which are usually considered to be four in number: gravity, the
strong nuclear force, the weak nuclear force, and the electromagnetic force. Because the
weak force can transform elementary particles from one kind into another, the TOE
should yield a deep understanding of the various different kinds of particles as well as
the different forces.


.
The holographic principle is a property of quantum gravity theories which
resolves the black hole information paradox within string theory. First proposed by
Gerard 't Hooft, it was given a precise string-theory interpretation by Leonard
Susskind.
The principle states that the description of a volume of space should be thought of as
encoded on a boundary to the region, preferably a light-like boundary like a
gravitational horizon. For a black hole, the principle states that the description of all
the objects which will ever fall in is entirely contained in surface fluctuations of the event
horizon.
In a larger and more speculative sense, the theory suggests that the entire universe can be
seen as a two-dimensional information structure "painted" on the cosmological horizon,
so that the three dimensions we observe are only an effective description at low energies.
Cosmological holography has not yet been made mathematically precise, partly because
the cosmological horizon has a finite area and grows with time.

188
             Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification
The Standard Model of particle physics is a theory of three of the four known
fundamental interactions and the elementary particles that take part in these
interactions. These particles make up all visible matter in the universe.
The standard model is a gauge theory of the electroweak and strong interactions with the
gauge group SU(3)×SU(2)×U(1). To date, all experimental tests of the three forces
described by the Standard Model have agreed with its predictions.
The Standard Model falls short of being a complete theory of fundamental interactions
because it does not include gravity and because it is incompatible with the recent
observation of neutrino oscillations. In order to introduce neutrino masses, the standard
model can be modified by adding a non-renormalizable interaction of lepton fields with
the square of the Higgs field. This is natural in certain grand unified theories, and if
new physics appears at about 1016 GeV, the neutrino masses are of the right order of
magnitude

Physics to a human investigator must be based on observational
techniques for it to be meaningful. Must be capable of detection
and verification. Counting discrete events is the easiest and
accountable method. But unless the event has a discrete duration
that identifies it as such , the counting method cannot be accurate.
Hence a method that predicts accurately the events that occur
within the discrete duration becomes necessary. Only an axiomatic
mathematical procedure can predict the state of events within a
discrete period within which the sequence of events forma
continuum of activity or a cycle.


GREATEST PROOF OF SUBSTANTIAL FIELD AND
GENETIC FREEDOM TO GROW ONLY ON EARTH
ECCLIPTIC ORBITAL OSCILLATION OVER 25650 YRS
AND 216 MILLION YRS AROUND GALAXY CREATES THE
EXPANSIO OF GENETIC MOLECULES TO DINOSAUR
LEVEL AND SHRINKS TO FLEA LEVEL AT THE ORBITAL
DIRECTION CHANGE LIKE SUMMER WINTER ON
EARTH.




                                                                                    189
