Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

Secret Of Sankhya:
Acme Of Scientific
    Unification
                By G. Srinivasan
              Transliterated From



The Sankhya Karika
              By Ishwara Krishna
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                            Table Of Contents Part II


    Table Of Contents Part II.....................................................2
    Table Of Figures...................................................................4
    Preface..................................................................................7
    Introduction To The Sankhya Karika.................................22
    A Tribute To Maharishi Kapila..........................................45
    Compatibility With Science................................................49
    Simplified View.................................................................59
    Background Of Sankhya.....................................................70
    Clarity Of Thought.............................................................83
    Special System Of Proof....................................................94
    The Missing Count...........................................................107
    Summary Of Suthras........................................................125
    Detailed Analysis Of Suthras............................................141
    Axiomatic Mathematics From Suthras. ...........................342
    Power House Of The Universe.........................................353
    Astrology, Ayurveda, Parapsychology are Axiomatic......374
    The Selfcharging Battery System.....................................381
    Appendix 1: Sankhya Translations Compared..................390
    Appendix 2: Origin Of The Vedas....................................407
    Appendix 3: The Siddhi Meditative process.....................446
    Appendix 4: Sankhya And Einstein..................................457
    Appendix 5: Age Of The Vedas.......................................478
2
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
    Appendix 5A: Age Of The Vedas.....................................487
    Appendix 6: Sanskrit Language........................................488
    Appendix 7: Lexicon Of Sanskrit Terminology................494
    Index................................................................................503
    Symbols & Definitions.....................................................504
    References........................................................................509




3
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                               Table Of Figures
Fig: The First Slope Of An Interaction......................................26
Fig. Concept Of Static Potential Fields......................................30
Fig: Elemental Space In Cubic Form.........................................60
Fig: The Closed Substratum Of Space.......................................96
Fig: Concept Of Vanishing Counts..........................................109
Fig: The Guna Diagram...........................................................146
Fig: Axiomatic Cyclic Limit Of 10 Counts.............................150
Fig: Doubling Spectrum By 7..................................................156
Fig: Discriminative Ability......................................................161
Fig: The Moolaprakriti Concept..............................................167
Fig: Moolaprakrithi To Purusha Transition.............................169
Fig: The Purusha Moolaprakrithi Formations..........................169
Fig: Aggregation Of Space Components.................................175
Fig: Prakrithi Vikrithi Nodes In Purusha.................................176
Fig: The Purusha Andhathamishra Form.................................178
Fig: The Linga-Bhaava Polarising Form. ...............................182
Fig: The Thaama Intreraction In Linga Mode..........................184
Fig. Stress Transmigration.......................................................185
Fig: The Bhava State Of Nuclear Interface..............................188
Fig: The Abhiman Potential Well ...........................................189
Fig: The Ahankar Spectrum Of 7 Ne States.............................192
Fig: Observable Phenomenon..................................................194
Fig: Transmigrating Vibratory Stresses ..................................221

4
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Fig: Self-similar Interaction.....................................................235
Fig: Abhimaan Ahankar Polarisation Graph............................243
Fig: The Mahad Vikrithi Vrithi Polarisation State .................243
Fig. The Cerebral Process Based On Gunas............................251
Fig: The Radiation Phenomenon.............................................258
Fig. Incremental States By Combinatorial Process..................295
Fig. The Coherent Perpetual Oscillator ...................................335
Fig. A,B,C. The Neutral Oscillator State.................................337
Fig: Derivation Of Cyclic Counts............................................348
Fig: Third Order Damping Constraint.....................................349
Fig: Concept Of Vortex As Vrithi...........................................350
Fig: Axiomatic Orbit Of Major Planets. ................................351
Fig: Centre Of Resonance........................................................353
Fig: Cosmic Power Structure...................................................363
Fig: Lissajou Figures Show Coherence...................................366
Fig: The Ladder Of Phenomenon............................................368
Fig: The Selfcharging Battery System....................................383
Fig: Sequential Interaction Time-Periods...............................386
Fig:. Simultaneous Interactions...............................................386
Fig: The Mahad Prakrithi/Vikrithi Exchange.........................387
: The Stress Cancellation In Simultaneity. ..............................388




5
    Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




6
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                               Preface

Lokmanya Tilak, a mathematician, Sanskrit scholar and patriot,
was intrigued by the fact that quite often translations of profound
Vedic texts lacked clarity and logical precision. It failed to
establish an unequivocal connection with the real world the
ancient authors were trying to portray. Through his two classical
works, the “The Orion” and “ The Arctic Home in the Vedas” he
provided a logical explanation for the apparent lack of cogency
in many Vedic translations and quite specifically the Rigveda.
Most translators of that period, whether foreign or Indian, held
the view that the historical time horizon of important Vedic
events were within the post-glacial era or a period later than
10,000 BC.
The heuristic evidence from geological and archaeological
discoveries of that period gave the impression that the process of
Vedic development did not commence until later. As the
Lokmanya had noticed, the translated Vedic information could
not be sensibly fitted into this foreshortened time span and gave
rise to speculative interpretations of such texts, that sometimes
bordered on the nonsensical. The Lokmanya boldly pushed back
the Vedic chronology to the pre-glacial era, based on his
mathematical expertise. It not only seemed plausible but it had to
be true if one had to logically reconcile numerous scientific facts
the Vedas had exposed. He hypothesised that the present
generations of humanity were the survivors of a global flooding
cataclysm caused by the melting of glaciers in the Polar Regions.
Many ethnic and religious groups (as in Vedic and Biblical
accounts of this apocalyptic event) have provided historical
confirmation for such an inundation theory. He proposed that the
brahminical tradition of scholarship enabled the renaissance of
orally transmitted Vedic information, by the surviving
generations. It was aided by re-awakening their latent genetic
memory through yogic practices, the possibility of which was
predicted by Vedic theories. Not only was such a recovery a
laudable feat in itself, but the degree of accuracy with which it
7
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
has been reproduced speaks volumes for the scientific concepts
of the Universe in the Vedas. Moreover, the Atharva Veda
contains specific information on stellar positions that could only
be reconciled by using the Lokmanya’s hypothesis. The detailed
proof for the foregoing premises, along with some new aspects
in physics are dealt with in the appendix section of this book.
In this background, the motivation to publish ‘The Secret of
Sankhya: Acme of Scientific Unification” came from the gradual
realisation of the correctness of Vedic theories. It was backed by
personal experimental confirmation of phenomenon considered
impossible or a violation of established theoretical principles. Of
the many, there were two benchmark confirmations, worth
explaining here. The first sloka of the Rigveda theorised the
availability of free energy in space, for Vedic scientific logic
defined it as being substantial, dynamic and holographic; not
empty and vacuous. Decoding this sloka gave the outline of a
principle of triggering space instantly in an expansive mode that
would produce an incremental output through self-confinement.
The Sankhya Karika by Ishwara Krishna (Sankhya), containing
axiomatic theorems of logic, confirmed this possibility. Sankhya
logic split interactive events in space into a sequence of cyclic
oscillatory actions when observable, else it was in ‘simultaneous,
coherent or synchronised (apparently static)’ state. The pseudo
static restful state provided the ground state or 'potential sink' for
higher activity levels to drift or gravitate towards it in attaining a
state of equilibrium. Therefore Sankhya derived; the important
corollary that there were no groups or domains of forces but it
was only due to different levels of simultaneous interactions.
This concept provided the primary cause of gravitation as a
phenomenon and with the exotic axiomatic supportive
mathematics, the last vestige of intellectual and logical
dissatisfaction was eliminated.
The holistic Sankhya view was that synchronisation of activity
produced the static effect in a dynamic environment. Therefore,
if one were to view the Universe from the ‘outside’ it would give
the impression of a static or unit entity representing the concept
8
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of a singularity. Yet, we as the internal dwellers know and
experience the gamut of phenomenon that belies the external
view. For instance, we know that the sun is in a dynamic state.
Yet, by virtue of its ability to act perpetually as one synchronised
unit, it gives the impression of being a static or ‘solid’ ensemble.
The Sankhya theory presented a concept of availing abundant
free energy from space by a momentary disruption of its
synchronised, coherent state. Hence, a simple electric motor was
constructed, without any means of creating a magnetic field, to
prove that self-confinement provided the equivalent of the
magnetic field. It operated at an efficiency of 'over-unity'. It
meant that the rotary action did not consume any electrical
energy or the input and output energy balance could be
accounted for perfectly by the static circuit characteristics. It
consumed the same amount of electrical energy whether it
rotated or not. The rotation was obtained by disrupting the
synchronised state.
This motor violated Maxwell and Faraday’s laws for its high
rotational speed was not dependent on a magnetic field because
it did not have one. Instead of the magnetic field, the mechanical
construction of the motor provided the predicted third order
damping force that imitated the magnetic field, to create the
rotary motion. Hence, the energy loss induced by the production
of a time-varying magnetic field was eliminated. It proved that
not only were Vedic principles correct but also introduced a new
concept that sudden differential-expansion of space, caused by
triggered impulses as conceptualised in Sankhya, provided self-
confinement that created the magnetic type of field. It provided
the motive for relative motion.
Sankhya logic also showed that sudden acceleration produced a
third order damping force in space. However, that restraining
force has not been hypothesised in physics till today, though in
the Hamiltonian of an oscillator there is an arbitrary restoring
factor. It was the motivating cause of the velocity dependant
magnetic phenomenon. In fact Special Relativity arrived at the
same conclusion by predicting that velocity of light cannot be
9
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
exceeded but could not derive a constraining force to
substantiate it through the concept of an empty space. However,
extending the principle of relativity, mathematically, to the
forbidden zone of ‘simultaneity’, confirms the existence of the
third order-damping interaction. It was the unification point of
all forces hidden in the mathematics of self-similarity. Physics
has discovered neither theoretically nor experimentally the
existence of such a force. However, the anomalies at the
Planckian      level    of     interactions,    superconductivity,
ferromagnetism and the EPR paradox, demands such a
phenomenon to balance out the highly energetic behaviour of so
called empty space.
The reasons for this failure were elementary. The current
scientific concept of an empty-space cannot logically justify the
existence of any reactive property in it. Moreover, the third
order-damping phenomenon followed principles of self-
similarity and scale invariance at the fundamental level; the
mathematics for which existed in Sankhya but not in physics.
For the latter relied totally on the ‘infinitesimal displacement’
with its consequential commitment to the principle of
uncertainty. Sankhya principles proved that perpetual cyclic
motion must exist if the input and output energy balance was
equal. Continuous cyclic oscillations would be possible if the
difference in space-time parameter was kept at 'zero' every
instant, by a phase reversed synchronous self-interaction.
Sankhya showed that such was the case in a holographic
interactive state, which followed self-similar & coherent laws in
a simultaneous mode.
  It was very evident that the laws in space followed linear
principles but the concept of a standard time or velocity
introduced the asymptotic behaviour. The principles were
explained and the motor action demonstrated by the author and
his eldest son, at the Gravitation energy conference at Hanover
in ’87. At this venue, another Indian experimenter, a scientific
officer from the Indian Atomic Energy establishment,
demonstrated a similar over unity current producing reaction-less
10
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
generator (that violated the Maxwell / Faraday laws,). Though it
was his private exhibit produced through personal sacrifice of
time and money, he was amply rewarded, for it won him a prize
for scale of performance. At the time of this writing he had field
tested a model at 200% efficiency. His late mentor, an American
nuclear physicist in the U.S. had built a similar but more
powerful working model (its operation was seen personally by
the author at Santa Barbara). He had said it was prohibited from
being privately used or publicly displayed, by the U.S.
Government, on the plea that this area of research in physics was
classified.
The well-publicised Newman perpetual electric motor (patented
in many countries including India) was also displayed and
demonstrated at Hanover. Newman was not granted a patent by
the authorities in the U.S.A. as they deemed it violated energy
conservation laws. Thousands of visitors witnessed the
perpetual-motion motor continuously driven by its phase-
reversed, self-generated power. When a sceptical physicist
commented “How can it work? It violates every energy law”, the
inventor’s representative retorted “unfortunately the motor
doesn’t know any of your laws”! That was the truth because
nature had it’s own laws but man had to learn them. It clearly
indicated that physics had reached an era of transition and
needed to introduce a new paradigm in scientific thinking. What
was more important, man had to learn to think as nature intended
for that was his real and innate strength. Sankhya taught man
how to think.
The second experimental confirmation, which became a personal
turning point, was from a psychic “out-of-body” experience
commonly called an OBE. (The late Dr. Puharich, a lifelong
researcher into paranormal phenomenon like Uri Geller’s
psychokinetic powers etc, called an OBE a process of projecting
the ‘mobile centre of consciousness’. Drs Raymond A. Moody
and Robert Monroe among several other researchers have
published such experiences of thousands of normal individuals.)
This event was followed by numerous psychic events of a
11
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
profound nature that provided unequivocal affirmation,
intellectually and emotionally, of the veracity of Vedic principles
and the tremendous lacuna in classical physics. The uniqueness
of these events compelled the author to delve into the
translations of the Brahmasuthra, Rigveda, Atharvaveda,
Bhagavadgita and some important Upanishads. It enabled him to
understand the psychic aspects of reality in a logical and rational
way.
All these works, though not complete, pointed clearly to a core
theoretical source, the Sankhya Karika. It was identified
unequivocally as the intellectual, logical and scientific base for
the field concepts in the Bhagavadgita, (mentioned in chapter 2,
verse 39, as a part of the Mahabharatha epic). The author,
lacking formal introduction into Sanskrit as a language, used
English translations by eminent researchers as a dependable
base, to fine tune and eliminate the inexactitude in
terminological meanings introduced by the individual styles of
researchers. He created a special lexicon, through a computerised
program of statistical and contextual decoding technique of
ancient Sanskrit terms. The Pratisakhya ostensibly created by the
ancient authors to aid the faultless transmission of their oral
creations, proved a valuable asset in clearing the ambiguities in
manuscripts produced later. As a case to point, Sankhya is spelt
as Samkhya by most authors. In Sanskrit, the word is accented
by the ‘anuswara’ character, which the Pratisakhya clearly
demarcates as an ascending sound of nasal origin. The
descending ’im’ sound is strictly of labial origin, which classifies
Samkhya into a different category, whereas ‘Sankhya’ means
numbers, counting, reasoning etc.
The first lead came from Suthra 1 in Sankhya. Analysing the
earlier works of at least 20 notable translators (both Indian and
foreign) of the Sankhya Karika, provided confirmation that it
was not translated, as it should have been. Almost every one of
them gave a different twist to its meaning and surprisingly all
had overlooked the axiomatic nature of all the Suthras. The most
important axiomatic definition of space in the first Suthra,
12
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
“Aikaantha-Athyantha-Atho-Abhavath” (Coherent, Perpetual,
Dynamic but Unmanifest) as the substratum of phenomenon was
overlooked completely by all the previous authors. That was
despite a confirmatory repetition of this state in the 68 th
(penultimate proving) Suthra.
The reason became clear. The creator of Sankhya, Maharishi
Kapila, was not only an intellectual colossus but also a thinker
with an uncompromising attitude towards maintaining accuracy
and preciseness. Instead of identifying space as a functional
object, he defined it objectively, accurately and functionally,
only by the specific characteristics required sustaining a dynamic
state of existence that formed the base for both manifest and
unmanifest phenomena. Further, in an extremely skilful
intellectual manoeuvre of elliptical negation, made that
description of the substratum of space the proposition and its
internally generated answer. That procedure complemented and
completed the logic of the rest of the 67 Suthras, both
mathematically and semantically.
In most Sanskrit verses, emphasis was created by elliptical
negation, passive understatements, hyperbole, iteration, parables
and unforgettable stories of fantasy. It was deemed the height of
intellectual excellence if the composer, through semantics,
roused the appropriate feelings accompanying a thought-form. It
was the only effective way to transmit oral creations, for there is
no evidence of Sanskrit in script from the pre-glacial era.
 It took the present writer more than seven years to understand
the true meaning behind each Suthra. It was done by a process of
decoding, using the Siddhi meditative technique recommended
in Sankhya. What Maharishi Kapila had demonstrated through
axiomatic mathematics was that all phenomena in nature was of
a holographic or coherent vibratory form. Therefore, the human
mind too could reproduce every phenomenon within itself by the
simplest process of bringing it to a coherent and synchronised
phase, emulating a static state. He called the process Siddhi and
the ensuing principles were later enunciated, defined and

13
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
elaborated by Patanjali in the Yoga Suthras, particularly in the
section called Samadhi pada.
Through Siddhi, the individual experienced phenomenon by
creating it within his mind, which proved to be the perfect way
to learn anything. One could not forget it because the coherent
mental state emulated a real lifelike experience. An orchestral
rendering was engraved on a flexible platter just through the
point of a needle and the same fine point reproduced the sounds
faithfully, as a gramaphone recording. The essential concept here
was the transfer of activity through resonance across a
needlepoint. A camera captured the universe in light across a
pinhole onto a film, again through resonance. A magnifying
glass burned a paper when the sun’s rays were focussed on it,
providing again a case of transfer of pure energy or power by
resonance across millions of miles. The entire information and
entertainment industry today depends on just one factor -
resonance. Maharishi Kapila went just a step further. He proved
through exquisite, axiomatic mathematics that so called ‘matter’
too was just a plain state of resonance of the components in
space!
Once the logic became clear, one found the new form of integer
mathematics in Sankhya gave it the preciseness that is seldom
experienced in any scientific field today. The equality of two
parameters could be tested to 25 decimal places prior to its
confirmation. The 68 important Suthras proved to be a goldmine
of factual scientific information. It provided the axiomatic
mathematical logic for the fundamental process of manifestation,
involving new principles and procedures leading to conclusions
that crossed the boundaries of current scientific knowledge.
The 69th Suthra’s explicit emphasis on the secret nature of
Sankhya motivated this writer to decode the axiomatic
representation in Sanskrit, rather than attempt a literal
translation. The alternate approach was well validated.
Surprisingly, the parent creation the Mahabharatha and
Bhagavadgita, lent itself to the normal translation processes
without loosing its meaning. However, reviewing the existing
14
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
translations (all of which followed the conventional approach)
exposed the muddle, even from the very first Suthra in Sankhya.
The reasons for the failure, of previous translators, to realise
Sankhya’s scientific base, lay in the interpretation of the very
first word in the first Suthra. Dhu: kha was translated by all as
pain but the contextual reference to the three Guna forces
(vector-tensor states or a taut bowstring in Sanskrit) compelled
one to read the real meaning as stress or interactive stress. Stress
meant that there was a lack of freedom to attain a balanced,
equalised or comfortable state
 The correct translation exposed a train of axiomatic principles
that was truly outstanding. For not only every important constant
in physics was derivable from a single, axiom but it also
extended the horizon of physics and cosmology tremendously,
literally and figuratively. Sankhya provided the axiomatic base
science had been looking for. Moreover, the accuracy of its
derivations far surpassed the scientifically established values that
proved unequivocally Du: kha was indeed ‘interactive stress’ in
Sanskrit, as used in the Sankhyakarika. (See ‘Comparison’ in the
Appendix section)
The dichotomy that man experienced when confronted with
eyewitness accounts of clairvoyance, telepathy, psychokinetic
acts, astrological predictions, faith-healing, out-of-body
experiences and a range of so called magical phenomena of both
black and white varieties, could not be resolved by scientific
justification. Nor could he reject it outright without labelling the
witnesses as liars, cheats or whatever. The Sankhyan concept
resolves such conundrums in a precise and axiomatic way.
Maharishi Kapila bases the entire theory of cosmic evolution on
one premise that whatever ‘components’ constitute space vibrate
or oscillate perpetually due to axiomatic laws as a frozen
hologram and all phenomenon is an outcome of this fundamental
behaviour.
  In simple terms a hologram is an image formed of vibrating
nodes that remain in a stationery relationship to each other to
maintain the form being projected. A coherent beam of light
15
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
from a laser forming an interference pattern with the image of
the object is recorded on a film. On reversing the process the
three dimensional image is projected with the original true to life
properties. The remarkable feature is that even a tiny fragment of
the film reproduces the whole image.
Then the corollary naturally is that all things like stellar bodies,
planets, oceans, mountains, trees, animals, humans and etc. have
a piece of this dynamic space, as its base or centre of existence.
Sankhya showed through axioms the irrefutable connection, to
this centre of a piece of cosmic real estate, as a dynamic,
vibrating, perpetually oscillating link through resonance.
Vibrations know no barrier, so it can pass through all mediums
but a ‘medium’ it must be, despite relativistic remonstrations to
the contrary. Learning to decode these vibrations gave man the
edge in deciphering natures secrets in the hidden and therefore
forbidden domains. Though this seemed impossible it was in fact
no different from deciphering through an instrument; like
establishing the fact of a planet orbiting a stellar body millions of
light years away, through instrumental observations. There the
magical aspect disappeared because there was a 'recognised'
thing called a telescope. However, the Maharishi showed that
man has the equivalent power of a trillion telescopes in each of
his genetic ensemble called a cell. Capping it all, Sankhya
showed through a brilliant concept of resonant polarisation, that
every coherent state in the substratum of space contained the
powerhouse of the Universe, as the Andhathaamisra state,
Vedically synonymous with the Shivashakti or the Shivalinga
state of coherent power.
Man had only to learn to use these marvellous instruments by
putting as many of them as possible in a state of resonance to
extract the unlimited information circulating in space as
vibrations. The unseemly controversy going on over astrology or
ESP phenomena has no intellectual validity when viewed from
the Sankhyan perspective. The centre of a human being is a
perpetually vibrating piece of cosmic real estate irrevocably
connected through resonance to the eternal universal interactive
16
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
vibrations. Like a fish in a pond reacts to a vibratory disturbance
in the water, the human ‘centre of awareness’ is gently nudged
into a nebulous reactive state by a change in the planet’s angular
position. The subtle signals communicate through the resonant
substratum to urge the genetic ensemble to do their wont.
The foregoing may seem like magic but not after one
understands the precise and rigorous mathematical Sankhyan
logic. It exposes the ‘how & why’ of the nascent messenger of
our information system, the so-called photon, that has an
identifiable connection to anything and everything. Does this
wonderful electronic messenger, that science has glamorised into
a dual mythical state of existence and non-existence, really
behave as experimentally conjectured? Sankhya puts your mind
at rest by showing through axiomatic mathematics that a photon
at 'rest' turns into a coherent, synchronised, spherical set of seven
dynamic units or Vrithis, called neutrinos in physics. Each of
which the Maharishi has defined as a Moolaprakriti or the
holographic elemental unit of activity, the very foundation (yet
to be discovered) for the much extolled Quantum Mechanics of
today. Paradoxically Cosmic physics confirms (in a theoretical
vacuum of course) that there is no place in this Universe, where
there are no neutrinos, though space is declared a vacuum!
The published findings of well-known psychics like Annie
Besant, Leadbeater and Cowen confirm beyond any doubt the
theoretical basis of Sankhya, which portrayed all phenomena as a
holographic activity. The extra-ordinarily precise sketches and
numerical values of all the atoms in the periodic table, given by
the experimental psychics in 1932, is an exceptional tribute to
the skill of the human mind in manipulating its extra-sensory
qualities. These details were published by Dr.Phillips in his book
and by Dr. M. Srinivasan as an article in the newspaper ‘ The
Hindu’. However, that psychic process was already defined
numerically in Sankhya as a Siddhi and laid out as a perfectible
system of yogic practices, by Patanjali, later.
The Sankhyan axiomatic mathematics and the psychic visions of
experts prove that the holographic mode of phenomenon is the
17
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
correct way to understand the universe. For it not only logically
simplifies it to a mere process of counting interactions, devoid of
dimensional characteristics but also eliminates the need for
dimensional concepts. The mass, charge, momentum & inertia
conceptual complications are arbitrary qualities, which Sankhya
replaces with two simple complementary factors of cyclic time
variations in the simultaneous and sequential phases. The
elegance of Sankhyan thought, mathematics and accuracy would
never be excelled, for it has placed itself in the position of the
theory of theories. It is indeed truly gratifying to learn that the
core of the popularly revered and venerated Vedic creation, the
Bhagavadgita, contains in fact a profound mathematical treatise.
It covers the physics of universal manifestation, presented as an
understandable edition to the lay public.
Though the author had no literary pretensions, these esoteric
hidden facts cried out to be exposed and therefore this book was
born. The intellectual magnificence, exhibited by Maharishi
Kapila in creating an axiomatic Sankhya, can rarely be excelled.
There is a direct confirmation, later in the ‘The Soundarya
Lahiri’ by the Adi Sankaracharya, of the holographic nature of
the Universe, albeit through visualisation in the structural form
of ‘yantras’. Hence the author hastens to clarify that he does not
claim any originality of Sankhyan scientific thought by
publishing this book except for decoding the axiomatic
mathematical structure of Sankhya and making it logically and
scientifically meaningful to this generation.
Unjust criticism of the works of previous authors is neither
implied nor suggested. On the contrary, this author is deeply
indebted to the intellectual pioneers who exposed the
uncertainties of translating a pre-glacial scientific language that
is certainly older than 10,000 years. (See Appendix -Vedic Age)
The author, (born in 1932, graduated in Marine Engineering and
extended his academic-working-experience background to
include proprietary Industrial Engineering / Diagnostic / Design /
Consultancy services) delved into experimenting with energy
related devices as a hobby, to satisfy his inventive curiosity.
18
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
These experiences led him to seek the source of fundamental
power in gravitational physics. Further, deeply intrigued by the
energy relationship to meditative processes, he explored Vedic
scientific thought in all seriousness that finally enabled him to
understand Sankhya, the theory of theories, over a span of 25
years. Based on Sankhya Suthra 37 a self-charging battery that
can remain on load perpetually is undergoing a performance test
currently. It will provide incontrovertible proof of Sankhya
theory to scientific investigators.
Since this book is aimed at the hidden aspects of Sankhya that
previous researchers did not deal with, the focus here has been
shifted to explaining the new information in as many ways as
possible to clarify difficult concepts. Hence, the approach here
would seem different to the usual mode of treating the Sankhya
Karika. Explaining the holographic concept is difficult and
particularly so as the axiomatic logic of simultaneity used by
Maharishi Kapila encapsulates complex modern transforms like
Fourier, Laplace and Lorentz through simple combinatorial
mathematics, with unprecedented accuracy. Hence all
mathematical expressions are presented as solved problems with
precise numerical answers shown in every case so that the reader
can see at glance the impeccable nature of Sankhyan logic. Such
an advanced concept demands a place for the origin of Sankhya
in preglacial times, as hypothesised by the Lokmanya. For,
contrarily, post glacial scientific thinking is steeped in primitive
rationalisation techniques that only seemed to attain intellectual
heights in the acknowledged works of Ptolemy, Tycho Brahe,
Nicolaus Coppernicus and Johannes Kepler. The teetering
seesaw logic of an earth-centred to sun-centred hypothesis
propounded by the foregoing group of thinkers, was emminently
overshadowed by         Maharishi Kapila’s holographic reality
defined through axiomatic and combinatorial mathematics in
Sankhya, eaons ago. Current science may realise its full import
probably in another 100 years.


19
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Sankhya provided the axiomatic foundation for the Bhagavad
Gita, which in turn gave a lay expose of the holographic field
theory called Kshetrajna. Imaginative dramatisation in the
Mahabharatha, enacted by gods, demons and humans, spread the
unforgettable message to the people at large. Maharishi Kapila
exposed the fact that basic axioms hold true for all times, which
naturally endowed it with the mantle of divinity. It logically
unified science and religion, the two sides of the same coin
called reality. The unique, self-similar law of universal
interaction called Dharma in Sankhya and the Gita, acting in
three axiomatic ways called Gunas, unifies all manifestation and
proves its ‘spirituous’ origin. An outstanding feature of Sankhya
is that it precisely describes what a ‘field of elemental
components’ is in real and mathematical terms. Modern theories
have demonstrated only how a field functions but have failed to
define it mathetically or physically.
Vyasa the creator of Mahabharatha, presents an impeccable
dramatisation of Sankhya principles through the dialoge between
Sri Krishna and Arjuna in the Bhagavadgita. It forms a model
lesson in communicating difficult principles. Sankhya Suthra 21
describes the interactions, in the fundamental field or Kshetra, as
the cooperative association between a lame person and a blind
one, to sustain manifestation as an oscillatory phenomenon,
which forms the foundation for human spiritual concepts. Sri
Krishna, the symbol of primal energy, guides Arjuna, the
symbolic manipulator of human skills, in the Mahabharatha, in
an allegorical setting replete with symbolic meaning. Sri
Krishna's chariot (athmaan) with six horses (the senses), with Sri
Krishna as the charioteer (epitome of humility with knowledge)
advises Arjuna (Vrithi), to use the bow (three gunas) and arrow
(the target) against his own people (absolute objectivity) to
fullfill rsponsibility (destiny) without the stain of sinning
( because a vrithi is a hologram and in any case will decay) . The
foregoing process symbolically presented the axiomatic law of
Dharma in the dynamic field of Universal manifestation.

20
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
There is no better way than to allow this same axiomatic law of
Dharma to unify the twin-polarised concepts of science and
religion. Thereby, humanity would gain a thousand-fold from
the benefits of a harmonised and focussed intellectual effort at
raising the level of human fulfilment. The same law of Dharma
would act transcendentally to improve human well being in the
Siddhi state of Ishwara pranidhana of Hinduism or a state of
Nirvana in Buddhism. Similarly, the same law acts in a state of
charismatic surrender to the will of the Creator, in Christianity,
Islam and Judaism. While learning increases knowledge, it is
essentially a process of memorising the outcome from past
experience. What humanity needs vitally is the ability to find
creative solutions for current problems, which the Siddhi state
eminently provides through transcendent exchange of abundant
knowledge from the field we live in. It is the essence of
spirituality and Sankhya emminently demonstrates through
axiomatic mathematics that it is as real and manipulatable as the
concept of materiality. They are both only different phases of the
reality we live in. Human equality and the democratic quality of
natural law demand that every human being share these rights of
living without let or hindrance. Above all it provides intellectuals
with a precise axiomatic foundation that unifies all apparently
confrontational concepts, the lack of which currently has
polarised society into a state of incompatibility.




21
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
             Introduction To The Sankhya Karika.

The Sankhya Karika, (Sankhya) is probably the least known of
all the Vedic compositions in Sanskrit, despite the fact that it
forms the foundation of the Bhagavathgita (mentioned first in
chapter 2, verse 39). Chapter 2 is named Sankhya Yoga,
emphasising its importance. The Sankhya Yoga is purported to
be created by Maharishi Kapila. It is highly indicative that in
chapter 10, verse 26, Sri Krishna, during his pedagogic dialogue
with Sri Arjuna, identifies himself with Muni Kapila as the
master of Siddhi. The Sankhya Karika by Ishwara Krishna
mentions the authenticity of this creation in the seventy first
Suthra.
There are four important reasons for its apparent lack of
intellectual or religious appeal to our present, post-glacial
generation. The first is its terse and ascetic structure. It contains
only 72 verses, 68 of which purport to define the complete
spectrum of universal manifestation. Most researchers today
would prefer to deal with the voluminous Vedas, epics and
Puranas, as it promised to yield information beyond expectation.
However, it would take a would-be-researcher considerable
courage to anticipate the extraction of a significant and
meaningful content from such a small creation as Sankhya.
Secondly, one could easily misconstrue the connection between
Sankhya, that stands for a process of 'counting' and the profound
religious compositions, like the Vedas, Mahabharatha and
Bhagavadgita. Hence, Sankhya had been shelved by the
discerning researcher.
Thirdly, translators and commentators of the earlier periods
projected a strong image that Sankhya was based on atheistic
concepts. Consequently, it was treated, as a sequence of thought
related to the physical wellbeing of humanity. This again was
connected through esoteric yogic practices that was not truly
religion bound.
Lastly, even the above three reasons would not have tended to
eclipse Sankhyan principles, had there been an early translation
22
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
that highlighted, in clear mathematical terms, the depth of
scientific information and path breaking cosmological principles
hidden in the 72 Suthras. Unfortunately, there is no explicit
information on the existence of even a single translation of its
exotic mathematics so far. The magnificent part was that all its
scientific principles were derived purely through axiomatic
mathematical logic. Maharishi Kapila displayed intellectual
brilliance at its analytical best for no theory in physics today is
based on axioms.
From 72 Suthras, 68 highly condensed and coded holistic
theorems explain the principles operating in the field of cosmic
space. It is axiomatically evolved through a special and unique
intellectual technique, using a novel form of rigorous holistic
logic, called integer-mathematics in a combinatorial form. It has
an unparalleled procedure for logically deriving its own internal
proof. Therefore, it needs no confirmation or experimental
verification of its main axiomatic or self-evident principles. It
not only unifies mathematically the logical cause of all
manifestation at the fundamental level with a simple and
exquisite numerical proof but also establishes, the most modern,
path breaking idea that all phenomenon is purely of a coherent,
synchronous, oscillatory or vibratory nature. It functions in a
holographic mode. A hologram is a state in which all the
vibrating nodes seem to remain stationary or frozen.
The overall view of a hologram being a frozen ensemble of
vibrations, it can be dealt with mathematically as a dynamic
entity in a static state. In addition, a unique feature of a
holographic state is that every part of it resembles the whole
structure due to the quality of self-similarity. A cube made up of
vibrating components displays its dynamic state. Since it retains
it cubic form despite its vibrations, it is in a holographic state.
The Sankhyan holographic view is new to physics because it
treats phenomenon as a dynamic state that must be described
mathematically as though it were a static ensemble. Therefore
the need to bring in concepts of time varying movement was
eliminated and all manifestation could be mathematically
23
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
described relationally through integers using combinatorial
principles. The unique advantage of combinatorial mathematics
is that it is object oriented, thus transcending the need for
dimensionality. The concept of dealing with dynamic
phenomenon as a stationery state eliminated the complexity in
mathematics. However, it brought in the need to treat it as a
simultaneous activity using new principles of self-similarity and
scale invariance that was simple yet accurate and axiomatic.
The foregoing principles allowed the derivation of dynamic
phenomenon as interactive ratios that eliminated the need for
defining dimensional aspects. Integer values representing ratios
could logically increase from a ratio of one/one to one / two.
That first step contained the source theorem for change in
interactive ratio. A cube and a sphere had a built in equality
factor. The cube had space as an equal parameter whereas a
sphere had time as the measure of equality. Above all, it had the
ability to describe real phenomenon in real time. Substantial
objects can be verified easily but time or the interval between
events was difficult to account for. The Universe could be
understood if cyclic time could be accounted for accurately.
The all-important first Suthra was structured as a conditional
theorem that elliptically generated an axiomatic mathematical
proof in Suthra 68. It proves the very proposition it introduces as
the basis for its axiomatic behaviour. By an extra-ordinary
statement of logical negation in the first Suthra, the basic
proposition is made applicable to every one of the 68 Suthras!
Through this process of elliptical negation, the entire theory is
unified. For by just disproving one theorem the entire set can be
shown to be in error. It establishes scientifically, through
axiomatic logic that every identifiable location in space functions
as a perfect and perpetual harmonic oscillator that remains in the
same static location with the energy spectrum, characteristic and
dynamics, of a micro-blackhole-quantum! The holographic
blackhole state becomes the repository of all the interactions and
so provides not only the potential for action but also forms the
historical source of all information, knowledge and therefore
24
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
intelligence. It can be extracted from that quantum blackhole
level through decoherence and disentanglement of its coherent
blackhole state in a holographic form.
The logic used by Maharishi Kapila in creating the
Sankhyakarika is impeccable. Any measurement is a relational
process and only a change can be measured but it takes time. The
difference between the yardstick and the measured object
constitutes the measured variable, which in effect is an
incremental change. Holographic phenomenon is dynamic and
oscillatory states are measured by cyclic time periods which then
limits the process of measurement to detecting the change in the
cyclic time interval. The credibility of a logical derivation is
enhanced if arbitrary definitions of dimensions and postulates are
avoided. Since the observer can detect or measure only a change
then logically, the incremental unit of measurement itself should
form the basis to derive the whole. Such a concept becomes an
axiom because the observer can only detect a change and
therefore has no option but to use only the observable as a
yardstick. This concept pervades all of Vedic science and is
apparently absent in existing sciences. Such a characteristic is
defined as Swabhava in Sanskrit or the trait of self-similarity.
When two or more associated parameters change at the same
time then, only a single ratio need be applied to all modes of
operation. As an example, the arch of a bow has expansive stress
on the outer side and compressive stresses on the inner side,
while the string is in tension and all are balanced at every instant.
The expansive, compressive and tensile stresses can be
expressed by one law. Alternatively, a single variable describes
the proportionality of three types of forces existing at the same
time.
Such a variable should be scale invariant, self-similar and have
an axiomatic relationship to the whole. At the elemental level, an
interactive cycle can vary only in two ways.



25
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




              Fig: The First Slope Of An Interaction

The gradient or slope can vary as 1:1 or 1:2.
Calculating the slope or gradient of 2 as a cyclic relational value:


                  1   22   1
                               = 0.6180339887
                      2

Setting x as the self similar variable:
                             x = 0.618034
If x is the value of a measured increment then the total value 1+x
must be related to the ratio of change as 1/x at the same instant
of time or simultaneously. Though in physics the definition of a
vector relationship does not specify that it is only valid at each
instant, in real terms it is assumed that it is constant over the unit
time. It emphasises the equality of the incremental value with the
ratio that the incremental value forms with the whole at the same
instant. Hence, if two or more actions take place simultaneously
within the same location, it can follow only one law or scale of
proportionality. Then the equation:
                               1+x = 1/x
sets the self-similar relationship to the unit. Rewriting
                       1+x = 1/x or x+x2 = 1
shows that the incremental value though unequal, yet has a
relational value to the remainder as:


26
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                              x2 = 1 - x.
The logic is that the incremental value is taken from within itself
as a proportionate factor by a process of simultaneous exchange
leaving behind 1-x as the remaining value. Here the internal
exchange can be written as
                (½ + x3/2 ) = x and (½ - x3/2 ) =x2
to provide the value of x and x2. The self-proportional or self-
sufficient mode of incremental action does not violate the rigour
of logic because there is no need to look outside for the means to
change. It avoids dependence on anthropomorphic ideas to
support the existence of a separate external agency to provide the
motivation at the fundamental level and allows interactive logic
to proceed axiomatically. Similarly the ratio of
                        (1 - x) / (1 + x ) = x3
which automatically defines the limit to change by a process of
exchange from within itself. This limitation is confirmed by the
difference too:
                              x – x2 = x3
While the incremental value of x + x2 = 1, the same ratio repeats
at the next level too, as x2 + x3 = x. The self-similar ratio is
evident as the powers of x. Here the logical reason why x 3 forms
the limit can be explained by another example. A cube can be
described as length L3 or splitting L as velocity V into time T
gives the form:
                  L3 = V3 T3                    E2
The limit of any change that has freedom to move or act in all
direction is given by L3.        As the ratio L / V = T then T 3
prescribes the limit proportional to L3. In a self-similar
interaction, the variable x has a similar function to T the time
cycle.
While this limit will be proved graphically in the main Suthras,
x3 sets the limit in any self-similar interaction. In terms of a
rigorous logical explanation, it sets the limit of the incremental
proportion x because the internal process of exchange cannot
exceed x3. If it increases, the value of x changes and loose it’s
self-similar proportionality. Since the proportionality is lost due
27
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
to a change then at the precise value of x, the incremental and
decremental process can go on simultaneously and endlessly. For
there is neither a loss nor a gain in the process of exchange, as
(½ + x3/2) and (½ - x3/2) add and subtract the same value from
half. Therefore, at this ratio a process of change can continue
endlessly or perpetually because only the same proportion of the
cyclic time-cycle is added and subtracted cyclically. Then all the
laws of manifestation can be equated to these parameters to
justify logically and mathematically the perpetual existence of
the process of internal exchange to provide the motive for
change. It becomes a dictum to apply this law to any interactive
state that continues endlessly and applies to all resonant states of
continuous interactions or oscillations or vibrations. The
outstanding idea here is that only when the harmony of exchange
is derived from within itself can oscillatory activity continue
perpetually. The entire manifestation spectrum follows this
unique principle with unprecedented accuracy. The Swabhava or
self-similar Guna expression is written in two modes to clarify
its extraordinary significance:

          3          3             3          3
     1   x      1   x         1   x      1   x
                         =1                       = 0.236068 E3
     2   2      2   2         2   2      2   2


As seen above any interactive oscillation based on self-similar
ratios have two limits established axiomatically. The additive
sum of 1 ensures that the time cycle is contained. Had that value
been larger than 1 the oscillatory state would have decayed and
ended the interactive cycle. The difference of 0.236 or x 3 ensures
that the cubic damping limit prevents an internal collapse of an
oscillatory cycle. All oscillatory cycles are shown to follow this
law in Sankhya.




28
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.


                                         1
         expansion           1       x       1.61803399
                                         x
                     1
         ratio                   x 0.61803399
                 1       x
                                             2
         compression             1       x x      0.38196601
                 1       x
         ratio                   x 0.61803399
                     x
                             1       x
         resonance                       x     x2 x3 0.23606798
                             1       x

                 x       x2
         ratio                   0.61803399
                 1       x



This extraordinary law based only on cyclic time called Dharma
in Sankhya provides perpetual dynamism to the components of
space through axiomatic logic described as the three Gunas. The
notable point is that the exchange component of the third order is
an axiomatic constraining or damping factor existing only in a
self-similar interaction.

It is also the difference in cyclic time between two adjacent
states. What is a third order damping force? It is simply an
axiomatic law of nature that in any instantaneous action there
can be only one ratio of all three types of activity in an
interaction. That is the act of expansion, compression and
resonance must all be defined by one ratio, and can be seen at a
glance, as shown:
In order to highlight the intellectual excellence of the Sankhyan
concept shown above, it is worth comparing with a similar
expression in physics that defines the harmonic oscillator, the
key to quantum field theory. It is called the Hamiltonian of a
classical oscillator:
                           1 . p2            1.
                         H                        m. w2. q 2
29                         2 m               2
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
E4

Explaining, p = momentum, m = mass, w = frequency and q =
co-ordinates, while H is a quantum of energy. The left part of the
equation represent the kinetic energy and the right is the
restoring-energy due to motion. It is called the equation of
motion. It provides two solutions of p and q for a quantum of
energy related to mass m. Ignoring the complexity what the
solution gives is the value of the motion after the fundamental
field of space appears as a reality.
Whereas the Guna expression gives the three phases of
interactive motion even before the fields appears.
That is, it describes the field of space in its fundamental state of
coherent oscillation, like the taut bow in the example. Fig.
Above shows the coherent field with varying levels of potential.
It is a static fundamental field in an unmanifest state and remains
in a potential state as rings of simultaneous interactive states.
The potential state may be seen as released stresses from




             Fig. Concept Of Static Potential Fields.
30
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

an interaction and the kinetic state as released stresses in motion
displaying velocity characteristics. The Hamiltonian described
the quantum of energy after it had started to act whereas the law
of Dharma identified the quantum of energy in its fundamental
state long before it had started to act. The value so derived
endows space with real qualities that physics has yet to discover.
The difference in value between the Hamiltonian and Guna
values is a massive 1017 count unit. Physics with its concepts of
mass, momentum and displacement fields has a long climb to
reach the conceptual level of Sankhya unless it jettisons these
ideas that have relevance only at the laboratory level of desultory
experimentation. This emphatic statement is possible only
because, in the Suthras that follow, all the universal parameters
in its entirety, are derived from those self-similar Guna laws. It is
derived with unbelievable accuracy, which anyone can verify
and find that it goes beyond the boundaries of current knowledge
in physics and cosmology.
The axiomatic logic is that if vibrations are caused by
interactions then those interactions can only be between objects
(whatever these might be) and becomes a dictum. If a theory is
to be based on sound logic then the investigator cannot ignore
this important fact. Theoretical physics has ignored the vital fact,
that elemental space cannot be a vacuum, devoid of identifiable
states. Any component with total freedom will move linearly in
reaction to a force but a sea of objects with no freedom
whatsoever can only vibrate at the same location in response to
an impetus with similar elemental objects around it. This
axiomatic statement describes the internal interaction between
components that follow laws categorised as self similar. It is
limited to three Guna states that can be described scientifically as
Thaama or inelastic collision, Sathwa or elastic radiant
expansion and Raja as resonant or bound states.
Stating it simply, vibrations that remain and add up in the same
location is Thaama, while vibrations that keep changing their
location and seem to move away is Sathwa. Vibrations that seem
31
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
to shuttle between these two locations that cannot be described
as Thaama or Sathwa is Raja. These interactive vector-tensor
states result in numerous permutations and combinations to
provide the holographic base. The principle of self-similarity,
embodied in the three Gunas, is symbolically represented by a
bow. Forces of compression in the inside of the arch matched by
the expansive tension on the outside are kept in static
equilibrium through the tension in the bow-string that balances
all three states simultaneously. When an arrow was shot, it
represented a scalar force and what the Schroedinger equation in
physics calculated was the depth of penetration in the target.
Whereas the Raja concept depicted the tension in the string as a
stress in the ‘dynamic but restful’ state before the arrow was
shot. The Hamiltonian becomes meaningful only after the arrow
is shot but the Guna triad tells one how taut the bowstring is!
Because of which, no doubt, that gap in time demanded the
principle of uncertainty to be established as an axiom in physics!
The implications of the holographic concept are that every point
in the substratum of space contains all the information in the
Universe as identical nested sets of vibrations in a frozen form.
In essence, it means that every possible phenomenological state
exists in every point of space as a locally extractable event.
Hence a particular state of interactive phenomenon need not be
physically conveyed over a distance but an appropriate set of
informative signals can recreate the original phenomenon locally
through transmigration of stresses in the connected continuum of
space. It can be described as the transmission of interactive
stresses at the sub quantum level in physics, where the concept
of velocity is replaced by an internal phase change or
transmission of phase velocity. In addition, as is well known
there is no limiting velocity value for stress propagation in a
medium. There is no known law in physics that prohibits a truly
rigid rod of infinite length from transmitting a movement,
induced at one end, to the other instantly.
As an example a television receiver with its own power supply
projects a two dimensional scene when triggered by a signal
32
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
strength that is a fraction of the power used in system. Similarly,
the local ‘perpetual oscillators’ in space are triggered by
quantum level tunneling signals to sustain a three dimensional
holographic reality of a particle. Except for one difference, the
electro-magnetic signals hop externally across the local
oscillators in space, at the velocity of light. Whereas the phase-
changes in the three modes of stress tunnel internally across the
perpetual oscillators in space as transmigratory phase-velocities
that has no limit. The components in space act like a solid when
accelerated suddenly, like the rigid rod. The components can
never be detected directly for they do not ‘radiate’ but the
‘stress-gaps’ between components do, as photons. Every
‘coherent point’ in space has a veritable powerhouse the details
of which are dealt with in subsequent sections. The so-called
Planckian fluctuations are a result of the resident power in the
substratum of space.
The mode of communication of such changes in stress is through
a transmigratory, tunnelling process. Such information
transmission is virtually instantaneous for it resonantly transfers
the change-in-phase of signals through a continuum of dynamic
components in the substratum that break the symmetry of the
normally coherent state in space. Extremely long wavelengths
(ultra low frequency) cause phenomenon that is new to physics.
It is dealt with by the principle of simultaneity in Sankhya.
Maharishi Kapila theorises and proves through axiomatic
mathematics that interactive phenomena in a random and
sequential state of inefficient activity naturally transmigrate
towards the synchronised, coherent and simultaneous state. A
coherent ‘restful activity state’ can be defined as a ‘potential
phase’ or ‘parallel’, ‘simultaneous’, or ‘superpositioned’
interactive spectrum. It embodies the principle of absorption of
non synchronised interactions, like the migration of thermal
vibrations from a higher to a lower temperature state. The
substratum of cosmic space is truly the ground state.
The concept of simultaneity, not used in physics explicitly,
forms a cornerstone in Sankhya. It mathematically defines any
33
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
group of phenomenon that act together or at the same moment or
instant. Logically it seems possible that time-cycle interval
between interactive events can be arbitrarily reduced to even
‘zero’ but does nature behave in that way? Sankhya has shown
that there is an axiomatic limiting value of 1/C1+x of a cycle
along each axis. Beyond it, the difference in interactive time
becomes ‘zero’ or the two events can be mathematically treated
as acting together or simultaneously. The vectorial aspect of a
force disappears and it behaves as a scalar. Smaller time-cycle
differences cannot be discriminated directly but only through
reactions, that radiates a non-synchronised or decaying energy
spectrum.
Conceptually man faces a paradox at the very first step he takes
to derive the laws of the universe. The two states, static and
dynamic, seem to be woven inextricably together. Yet, a choice
has to be made if the laws of phenomenon are to be based on a
correct foundation. Logical rigour compels one to choose the
dynamic state as the elemental or initiating condition. For it’s
‘opposite’ restful, stationery, coherent state is created when all
activity simultaneously synchronise into coherence a region,
thereby eliminating the duality created by the two terms
'dynamic' and 'static'. Such a static state will represent a passive,
frozen blackhole or coherent ‘internal’ activity and therefore
becomes transparent or undetectable. A synchronised state
resembles a restful phase; therefore, all active states gravitate
towards this coherent condition. It acts as an absorber of
vibrating activity or oscillatory movement.
Through this concept, Sankhya exposed the dual nature inherent
in detecting phenomenon either as a coherent wave packet
identified as a “particle” or an unsynchronised wave ensemble
as a “ray or photon” depending on the interactive state of the
observer. The inexorable axiomatic logic that leads to this
conclusion is that if any two identical components are to remain
together as an agglomerate unit then these must be at the same
oscillatory activity level. (Like thermal equilibrium / state of
relative “rest”) Otherwise, every possible combination of
34
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
vibrating motion causing a deviation must be precisely confined
to a cyclic ratio of two. Then it conforms to the standard required
to maintain a synchronous and harmonious standing wave.
Had this condition been attained easily there would not have
been any detectable phenomenon or an observable Universe
today. Hence, there rose a vital need to understand the logic that
made it impossible to achieve this coherent balance permanently.
Sankhya shows that the conceptual mode of solving this problem
is simple, for all one has to do is to create a three dimensional
grid divisible by two raised to the nth power (2n). However, at the
same time it proves it is impossible to achieve the coherent state
naturally for the very last or elemental cubic grid cannot be
divided. It can only be shared and therefore the last or innermost
one keeps each component in a dynamic state of existence
forever. The ratio of sharing the elemental cubic grid is
axiomatically derived by several principles and quantifies it as
2.718 (the value of the natural logarithm e).
It is in the form of a blackhole or Andhatamishra (meaning the
darkest division of hell in Sanskrit) which oscillates
simultaneously in modes greater than 18 orders of magnitude, as
(1018) defined in Suthra 48. This shared perpetual activity at the
very core, is allegorically compared to the mutually beneficial
association of a lame person with a blind one in Suthra 21. The
act of sharing is the cause of an astronomical oscillatory super-
positioning density build-up that is defined in Suthra 46. It
maintains the oscillatory stress energy within it to keep even a
Galaxy functioning as a single unit.
In addition, all this complex activity is kept in a perpetually
dynamic state only by an extremely gentle interactive rate. It as a
constant and consistent boundary activity, which today's
cosmology has identified as the enigmatic 2.7 degree Kelvin
background microwave radiation. This activity has been
compared in Suthra 59 to the genteel actions of a dancer, Prakriti
(or oscillatory activity) performing before an appreciative
audience, the Purusha (coherent blackhole quantum in every
point in space). The fact that the observer was aware of
35
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
phenomenon only through it’s vibrations was described as Maya
(measured =Ma movement =Ya) in the Vedas, meaning that the
observed substantiality of phenomenon is only an illusion like a
hologram.
The holographic concept, as a fundamental base for reality, is not
recognised theoretically or notionally in physics & cosmology. A
special mathematical approach has been made in this translation
to make it understandable to the scientific inquirer. Further, an in
depth comparison of Einstein’s theoretical concepts that led him
to evolve the Special and General theories of Relativity, is
presented as ‘Sankhya & Einstein’ in Appendix 2. It highlights
its relevance to Sankhya, which provides the very solutions that
intellectuals have been seeking for ages. Science depends on the
principle of uncertainty to solve problems in the hidden domains
whereas Sankhya logic shows that it can be defined certainly and
precisely just through axioms
From the foregoing explanation, it can be emphasised that the
Sankhya Karika is a purely intellectual creation by Maharishi
Kapila. It has been derived by a unique analytical process of
yogic meditation that enables the inquirer to understand the
functioning of universal phenomenon in the substratum of space.
While the observer has no means of experimentally ascertaining
nature’s true mode of functioning at the elemental level, the
intellectual Sankhya way is certainly one complete method that
can effectively explain the entire phenomenal process in a
theoretically unified way. The axiomatic logic eliminates any
arbitrariness in arriving at mathematical solutions which rules
out any uncertainty in interpreting phenomenal activity. The
Sankhya logic forms a loop starting from past causative
interactions leading to events in present time, which points to the
conservative reaction in the future. This triangular sequence
remains static if activity along the three axes is equal in cyclic
time. However, it spirals inwards if the ratio is progressively
reduced. Then it ends in a point or singularity. If on the other
hand the inequality in ratio progressively increases then the

36
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
triangular series opens out into a quadratic limit of a square,
which is a true description of space.
The intellectual basis for a ‘complete theory’ compels one to
seek a mathematical process that has the quality of being defined
as ‘natural’ or axiomatic. Such a process is transparent and does
not need a separate regimen of proof. The range of numerical
series available, through simple arithmetical manipulation, are
self-evident and the extrapolated outputs are obvious and
understandable. Sankhya has shown these concepts are tenable
only in a holographic base. Since all human knowledge is a
relative process, Sankhya provides a perfectly logical procedure
to understand nature through a totally axiomatised and internally
derived relational procedure devoid of dimensionality,
definitions and postulates. Alternatively, rephrasing it, if man did
not know of mathematical subjects like calculus, geometry,
trigonometry, algebra etc, how would he then try to understand
the process of manifestation? The answer is of course, he will
start with elementary counting procedures and that, Maharishi
Kapila proved, was more than enough to understand the
Universe!
While the common view is that mathematics is logical, it really
represents only a sequential relationship of numerical values.
Hence, the relative value of the unit reduces asymptotically with
increasing numbers, which then makes the unit lose its logical
significance. This factor brings in the need to limit the sequence
to the numeral two. If the unified laws of physics are truly scale
invariant then it must be applicable at the very first change from
unit one to two. Moreover, an axiomatic consequence of the
foregoing is that there can be no constants of dimensionality,
proportionality & linearity if the theory is to be considered
perfect. Hence, a change from one to two forms the axiomatic
base in Maharishi Kapila’s logical derivation and all the laws of
physics are miraculously contained in this elementary transition.
If there are any true physical constants then it can and must exist
at the elemental activity rate of two interactions because at one,
the dynamic state is lost and the Universe loses its potential to
37
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
exist. At levels greater than two, the relative value of the unit
progressively is devalued. While ½ is the maximum ratio of two
contiguous numbers, one divided by any other larger numerical
value reduces the ratio of ½ as 1/10 or 1/infinity. This is an
axiomatic fact, which Sankhya has used with singular success to
build all the Universal laws within the ratio of ½. The
mathematical procedures needed to operate such a concept are so
rigorous and forbidding that there is no possibility of current
mathematical methods in theoretical physics ever adopting or
even attempting such a process.
Sankhya transcends the need to create complex paradigms and
esoteric intellectual disciplines as a precondition to
understanding universal phenomenon. Physics today is based on
pre-defined postulates, empirical inputs and innovative
mathematical techniques, all of which have a built-in caveat –
errors of derivational logic and experimental measurement,
compounded by the collateral damage in using ‘clock-time’. The
mathematics involved in describing space in terms of a metric
formulation has so many conceptual traps; it certainly cannot be
evaluated purely on ‘common-sense’ or axiomatic logic. The
concept of momentum and inertia, from which the principles of
physics are derived, is not verifiable except in a laboratory.
Whereas Sankhya based on mere counting of observable events
or interactions, is a universally understandable concept. It has no
caveats as it can be verified both physically and intellectually by
anyone, anywhere and at anytime. Above all, it accounts for only
one variable – the cyclic time of an event.
It uses a novel and advanced holistic logic, compared to the
analytical processes currently followed in scientific
investigations, to explain the abstruse theorems composed with
two levels of meaning. The obvious meaning refers to the normal
living process modelled on similar human attributes and the
submerged or hidden aspects refer to the enigmatic substratum of
space that is the base for all phenomena. Suthra 69 declares it a
secret doctrine, meaning it must be decoded. It functions very
logically, with immaculate mathematical perfection, using a
38
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
simple counting technique, along myriad’s of super symmetrical
parallel paths that makes it impossible to err, due to the existence
of a high simultaneous affirmation factor commonly called
redundancy. Further, because it is based on axiomatic logic, the
relative limits of interactions can be derived precisely even at the
elementary level.
The very first and elementary interaction can be limited
axiomatically to counts between two objects. Therefore all the
laws of interaction must be contained within this level and in
fact, it is shown so. In a holographic base, only the vibratory
count in a cycle or period is of significance and therefore
transcends the need for dimensionality, while important
elementary numerical ratios provide an axiomatic foundation.
Though Sankhya numerical values are decimal based, its
presentation is confined to indicating the index or power or the
logarithmic index value to the base 10. In this book all the
numerical values are derived as an integer relationship, but
presented as a decimal fraction to enable the reader to easily
identify the numerical equivalence with known scientific values.
  Einstein abandoned the concept of a cosmological-activity-
constant as a logical blunder. On the contrary, Maharishi Kapila
had given the equivalence of this important elemental limit the
pride of place in Sankhya as the Moolaprakriti (My). It was
defined as a fundamental quantum of cyclic time or inertia (or
mass). Its value was precisely derived through axioms by
defining its limits accurately. The significance of the My value is
one of the most important points defining the smallest delay in
activity beyond which the concept of motion is reduced
axiomatically to a static state. That is, movement involving
sequential time changes into simultaneous activity time or the
point at which the mass or denser state or inertia is created. It in
fact defines the point when dynamic space and static time have
the same numerical value in terms of an interactive count. This
process showed that in a dynamic state, absolute values have no
relevance. Hence, all parameters must be expressed as ratios or
rates. The other advantage was that as Sankhya dealt only with
39
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
cyclic time, any delay meant that inertia or mass became the
'accountable' quantum. Hence My being the smallest possible
axiomatic quantum of mass or inertia the whole universe could
be described merely by the My count, devoid of dimensional
complications.
The evolution of physics has been beset with paradoxes, (see
‘Age of the Vedas’ in Appendix 1) starting with the Boltzman
'equipartition' theorem. It resulted in deriving a temperature
related thermal quantum, the Boltzman’s constant. However, it
failed on the question of degrees of freedom required in
quantifying fundamental activity. Subsequently Planck’s
quantum theory resolved many enigmatic questions including the
cause of the so called ultraviolet catastrophe but its application
was strictly limited to phenomenon that was only capable of
radiating at least one energy quanta (Planck’s constant).
Hawking along with Penrose, Schwarzschild and others delved
into the frozen region of singularities, paradoxically called
blackholes (for Sankhya had labelled it the Andhatamishra state
ages ago). They theorised that the phenomenon of super-radiance
had the power to create particles but the mathematics depended
solely on the ratio of the Boltzman & Planck constants. For as of
today there exists no system to directly calculate the interactions
within these simultaneous regions of the substratum of space.
The Bose-Einstein or Fermi-Dirac formulations deal only with
boundary or interface conditions just outside the stationery or
coherent state indicating its degree of rotation or non-
synchronisation. In a periodic oscillatory environment, the
problem solving Fourier transform series proves to be quite
inadequate. It fails to resolve instantaneous transitions of
potentials involved in the leading edge of a real square wave (or
the region inside the coherent boundary or the ‘simultaneous
domain)’. Sankhya, despite its apparent origin in antiquity, lays
out integer mathematical methods, based on the Guna principle
of self-similarity and scale invariance. It provides a precise
method to obtain numerical solutions within the “instant” or the

40
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
enigmatic blackhole domain, through application of the My
concept.
The analytical power of its logic is such that it identifies and
itemises every component in space as an intensely vibrating
holographic phenomenon. It shows that it cyclically ranges
internally between a coherent0 Purusha (Kx) blackhole mass of
quarks and nucleonic hadrons with 1018 modes of compressive
Thaamasic interactions. That state is balanced externally by the
Prakriti (PM) spectrum of seven levels, as lepton - photon
interactive states with 1020 counts of expansive Satwic states.
Both are bridged by the 1010 interactive, intermediate, linking
modes of Rajasic activity described as the weak interactive
regions in particle physics. When the coherent conditions in the
Substratum became unbalanced due to delays caused by a large
region of space acting as a coherent unit, then the polarised
combination of the three Guna activity states results in the
ubiquitous gravitational phenomenon.
Contrary to current scientific thinking, the “Strong, Weak and
Electromagnetic” forces do not exist as a distinct fundamental
property of space in it’s coherent and synchronous state.
However, as the delay in regaining the balance grows, the super-
positioning of oscillatory counts increase logarithmically. It
displays a continuous range of accelerative states right from the
boundary of the electromagnetic level to the nuclear core. It
follows the same incremental mechanism, which culminates in
the gravitational phenomenon, thereby unifying all forces. Any
number of waves vibrating at even numbered frequencies
maintain their nodal positions in the same relative relationship.
Expressing it in another way the midpoint of a spectrum of even
numbered vibrations remains in the same position. That is unlike
the behaviour of odd numbered oscillations. A rigorous
application of the Guna principles, exposes the precise point at
which perfect and eternal resonant balance is maintained at the
Kx / Px (nuclear boundary) interface. Through a remarkable
coincidence of an unexpected number of axiomatic ratios, the
preceding factors control this boundary. It is the point at which a
41
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
third order damping constraint based on self-similar mathematics
creates the static, inertial, or mass-like states. The confirmation
of this unique boundary is confirmed in six different ways
through axiomatic mathematics in Sankhya.
An even more surprising conclusion emerges from Sankhya that
the circumference to radius ratio π evolves naturally as the loci
of increasing rate of interactions following self-similar Guna
laws. Self-similar interactions close inward to maintain a centred
state at all rates of interactions thereby creating the vorticular
particle state. Those that remain stationary due to attaining
coherent states are classified as fermion states in physics with
half spin and the others with unitary spin values. Sankhya shows
through axiomatic logic of two related ratios called Linga &
Bhava and Abhiman & Ahankar at the Thaama/Raja and
Raja/Sathwa interfaces respectively to produce the phase
changes that increase inertial or mass density in several steps.
The electromagnetic photon spectrum of waves that form the
Satwic region acts in the Ahankar mode, until its Abhiman
potential places it in the leptonic particle domain. The crossover
into the weak interactive region is conditioned by the
synchronisation of interactions along two axis. This superposed
state raises the inertia or mass density to shorten the interactive
time-cycle and close the spatial distance between particles,
which increase its mass. It describes the Raja / Abhiman region
of resonant interactions that gradually lead to the Raja / Bhava
interactive states Hadron/lepton spectrum. It crosses further into
the Linga / Raja resonant spectrum of heavier particulate states.
In the Thaama / Linga region is an extensive spectrum of
particulate states identified as quark / heavy quark etc. Sankhya
shows that in the ultimate coherent state when interactions along
all three axis are simultaneous, the blackhole state with 18 orders
interactive modes provide the gigantic potential to make these
locations into the powerhouse of the universe.
Sankhya logic shows clearly that an increasing rate of vibration
in one axial direction, relative to a constant rate in a another
axial direction, produces a path of proportionately diminishing
42
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
displacements, in a confined domain, which sums up to Pi.
Putting that in the language of interactions, after this point there
are no intermediate vectorial positions but it flip over Therefore
nature axiomatically provides particle states with half-spin
fermion characteristics inside this boundary. In the Substratum,
it consists of a complex, diffused, spectrum of coherent
oscillations. It ranges from 1050 to 107 interactions per cyclic
period with a precise non-radiant interactive balance maintained
at about 4 gigacycles. Cosmology equates that to the Planckian
blackbody-thermal-density-spectrum at around 2.7 degrees
Kelvin. Sankhyan concept show that the 2.7 Kelvin is actually
the value the natural logarithm e=2.718. If a state is described in
terms of elemental interactions as N then the minimal ratio
axiomatically equals N to (N-1) and the minimal increment
becomes 1+1/(N-1). The maximum number of ways in which the
increment can change is again N-1. An internally motivated
change than can be expressed in terms of the logarithmic value
of (1 +1/(N-1)) raised by N-1, which equals 2.718 when N
equals infinity. Hence, the rate of internal change can never
exceed 2.718.
                       N   1                   N   1
E5             N                       1
                               1                       2.718282
           N       1               N       1
Applying the preceding principle the Planck’s energy quanta is
shown to be relatively larger than the elemental Moolaprakriti
(My) by 17 orders of magnitude. As the Substratum is always in
a quiescent, synchronised and coherent state, it is not externally
detectable unless the balance is upset to de-synchronise the
coherent state. The proof that the logic is absolutely correct
comes from the axiomatically derived numerical values of the
following: critical parameters as: Planck mass, nuclear densities,
stable nucleon, lepton, proton, photon, Planck-length-time,
velocity of light, strong, weak and electromagnetic forces. In
other words, there is no need to describe phenomenon in terms of
mass, length, time, charge etc but simply by the number of
43
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
interactions in a cycle. It is the ideal mathematical form that
physics has been in search of. In fact, it shows that phenomena
can be described purely by a combinatorial algorithm starting
from the first interactive count of two. The mathematics is
shown in the section on axiomatic derivations.




44
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                 A Tribute To Maharishi Kapila

A special tribute must be paid to Maharishi Kapila’s intellectual
excellence. He not only evolved an original, single fundamental
principle that unified mathematically all the different disciplines
found necessary to understand physics & cosmology, but also
established with a simple and exquisite mathematical proof, the
most modern, path breaking idea that all manifestation is a
holographic phenomenon. He described the substratum of space
in Sanskrit as ‘Aikaantha-Aathyantha-Atho-Abhavat’ or the
‘synchronised, permanent, dynamic but unmanifest state’. The
Sage has used this important 4 word Sanskrit phrase in a
conditional mode in the very first Suthra. While this phrase is not
repeated again in the entire treatise, the key words “aikanthikam
– aathyanthikam” in the ending 68th Suthra provide the
elliptically terminating proof to logically seal the correctness of
the initiating proposition; thereby displaying a reverential
attitude towards nature’s source of all power, in the true spirit of
an intellectual who valued logic and rationality above all else.
His impeccable logic and austere style had led his critics to
mistakenly label the Sankhyakarika as an atheistic treatise.
The term substratum in this book refers to that important phrase
hereafter. Humanity should forever be grateful to Maharishi
Kapila for having introduced the concept of a positive
intellectual self affirmation process defined as Siddhi in Sanskrit
and doubly confirmed its perfection, by laying bare the
axiomatic operating principles of phenomenon in just 70 Suthras,
with its own internally derived proof, by an extra-ordinary and
unequivocal numerical value. By establishing the fact that the
observer need only deal with vibratory counts in measuring
cyclic phenomenon, he dislodged the concept of clock time that
experimental physics now has raised to a position of eminence.
Through rigorous logic, time in Sankhya, is shown to be an
indicator of a relative delay in the completion of an interactive
event. This factor shown is the measure of slackness, flexibility
or degree of freedom to move in states that interact in the
45
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
simultaneous mode, normally described as coherent,
synchronised or symmetric space. He must also be credited with
deriving a precise mathematical method to deal with
simultaneous or instantaneous phenomenon identifying the
coherent potential, that eliminates the pain of dividing by “zero”
time and has taught man to discover the large spectrum of
coherent phenomenon hidden behind the infinitesimal, by
mathematically peeping over the zero time barrier. The cyclic
period of coherent and symmetric phenomena is symbolically
represented by the so called mystic symbol the Swastika which
can never turn into a cross for the ultimate Moolaprakriti activity
cannot be destroyed. Above all, he has raised the so-called empty
vacuum of space to its pivotal and deified role as the source of
all power in manifesting phenomenon.
The axiomatic base of Sankhya makes it impossible to be
disproved and this quality makes the theory eternally applicable;
which fact confers the mantle of divinity to its principles. In this
impeccable & logical treatise he has laid out the new and
outstanding principle of Simultaneity which accounts for all the
past activity that provides the base for all the interactive
phenomenon in the relativistic domain of present and future
activity. In fact, it provides the vital missing link in the
unification regime by evolving the mathematics of a point source
or the singularity for completing the equation of conservation
that is a must in any field theory. It is the principle that connects
the internal source or singularity to the external reaction or
fields. Since the law governing simultaneous activity is self-
similar and internally generated the ability to correctly predict
the state of activity anywhere else is made possible
mathematically. In other words distant phenomenon would seem
to be connected space-wise apparently violating the principle of
causality but in reality since the rules of self similarity are
identical every where in fundamental space it can be mistaken
for a connection. The Principle of Simultaneity based on
axiomatic mathematics is new to science and provides the
unifying theoretical base that covers the principles of general &
46
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
special relativity and the unified axiomatic base for the quantum
theory. The Sankhyakarika is indeed incomparable.
  The Yoga Suthras of Patanjali are an elaboration of Sankhya
Suthra 6, based on the holographic qualities of the Substratum,
which hides the limitless spectrum of coherent phenomenon
bordering on near magic. Sankhya provides the theoretical base
for the Yoga Suthras of Patanjali and in fact, lays out the
mathematical definition of the Iswara field, submission to which
guarantees the attainment of Samadhi or transcendent mental
state of understanding. While the sermonising style of the
Bhagavadgita has earned it the reputation of a religious treatise,
it is indeed a lay demagogic expose of a complex field theory, of
the resonant and dynamic Substratum, entirely based on the 70
verses of the Sankhyakarika. What is more, all the four Vedas,
the Brahma Suthras, Vishnu & Shiva Puranas, (among other
eminent original Sanskrit works) use the principles derived in
Sankhya without trying to re-derive them, thereby
acknowledging its principles as being factual and fundamental.
The intelligent and perspicuous investigator of original Vedic
creations would understand that the Mahabharatha and
Ramayana are a numerically codified holistic three-dimensional
dramatised presentation of the Sankhyan holographic field
concept enacted by gods, demons and humans representing the
ever dynamic and ever interacting forces of nature. In short, it
presented the esoteric holographic field theory to humanity in a
visually understandable and unforgettable way. In the larger
sense Maharishi Kapila has exposed the hereto hidden 75 percent
of phenomenon in a truly understandable and logical way that
should keep humanity busy possibly for the next 1000 years in
beneficially learning to use the coherent but submerged power
from the Substratum.
The spectrum of innovative coverage is immense; intergalactic-
communication by “instant” stress energy transmigration;
detection of gravitational potential through phase shift instead of
displacement by waves; extraction and transmission of high
frequency coherent mega-power from the Substratum by
47
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
triggered potential changes; triggering coherent states to
exchange, compute and control phenomenon at the quantum
level using simultaneous modes at unimaginable speeds; the
practical use of coherent information phenomenon (currently
classified as parapsychological) in plant-animal-human genetic
behaviour; psychokinesis, materialisation and teleportation
through phase-related coherent holography ; advance or early-
warning in micro-event forecasting in genetic behaviour and
macro-event predictions in global weather, seismic, tidal and
interplanetary activity areas; exploring and communicating with
extra terrestrial civilisations virtually instantaneously and much
more, where only imagination is the limit. Of immediate interest
of the individual would be the possible quantum jump in creative
educational methods in all-round personal development. It would
take experimental science many decades to fully understand the
mechanism of action in the parallel or simultaneous domains of
space. The laws of self-similarity, scale invariance, super-
symmetry and coherence seem to lay no limits on the
manifestation process in the substratum. Since axiomatic
derivations lead to defining both the maximum and minimum
limits at once, any equation has two solutions with reference to
both the extremes, which removes uncertainty.




48
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                  Compatibility With Science

The question uppermost in the mind of any scientific investigator
or reader would be the compatibility of Sankhyan theory with
modern physics and cosmology. This factor would have to be
doubly emphasised in view of the fact that the tremendous
advances in technology today affect almost every aspect of life
on this planet in unimaginable ways. How then could Sankhya
thought, apparently many thousands of years old, lead the way?
Looking dispassionately at the current scientific foundation, one
cannot help but see a gap in the conceptual logic of space,
reminiscent of reasoning used in mythological stories. The
recognised and acknowledged position both mathematically and
experimentally today is that space is empty, devoid of qualities
and described as a vacuum.
Scientists have been forced into this position because
experiments failed to confirm their conjecture of what space
should be. Since exotic phenomenon was constantly being
discovered, the relentless pressure to use these gainfully drove
scientists to substitute mathematical reasoning, that could only
explain “how space acts”, instead of “what space is”.
Mathematics, being a powerful analytical tool, could even be
used to prove the impossible, by deliberately introducing minor
lapses in logic and later developing total amnesia about the
procedures adopted. Such a procedure called renormalisation is a
standard technique in physics. The current dependence purely on
mathematical logic is intellectually very unsatisfactory. The
relativistic theories of Electromagnetic and Gravitational action
depend so heavily on geometry that one is forced to ask if
‘geometrodynamics’ created matter in space that is only a
vacuum. In appendix E, a comprehensive review of prevailing
relativistic theories is compared with Sankhya logic, to establish
the technical superiority of its concepts.
Maharishi Kapila’s derivational logic in Sankhya avoids these
intellectual traps. His emphasis that theoretical facts can only be
based on axiomatic logic paved the way for him to identify the
49
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
reality of the structure of space by using the power of axiomatic
mathematics to prove that it was so. The spectacular Sankhyan
delineation of the entire spectrum of interactions in the medium
of space is confirmed by current theoretical and experimental
physics only in the observable region. While scientists like
Schwarzchilde, Penrose, Hawking, Chandrashekhar, Sakharov
and Einstein laid down theoretical premises about high-density
phenomenon in space, Sankhya has presented its precise
mathematical structure with irrefutable axiomatic logic based on
the principle of self-similarity. This hidden domain offers
physics the real answers to understand all phenomena in space
that is certainly not empty. Physicists are aware of an enigmatic
and unexplainable interactive state at the Planckian level of
space that cannot be justified by current theory. In addition, to
make it worse they have even surmised and acknowledged that
this activity is of intensity far greater than the strong force.
Hence, it compelled one to take critical notice of Sankhya
because it not only provided an axiomatic theory but also
enabled the accurate derivation of every fundamental constant in
physics from one basic interaction. As it did not need an
empirical input, it was a truly self-generating theory.
 General Relativity, though considered an axiomatic derivation,
depends critically on the measured values of light-velocity and
the gravity constant. Further, Sankhya not only provided an
axiomatic explanation for all the important anomalies in physics
but also predicted the existence of phenomena for which current
theories in science did not have an answer. The ‘Aikaantha-
Aathyantha-Atho-Abhaavaath” state of the Substratum provided
the super-symmetry and coherence that physics sought and
encountered frequently, especially in ferromagnetism,
superconductivity, blackhole and Planckian level phenomenon
but were unable to reconcile mathematically with the concept of
an empty space. The currently promoted superstring and
supergravity concepts in physics, as an answer to fill in the gaps
in the unification logic, form an integral part of the Sankhya
axiomatic principles. While details of the logic that makes
50
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Sankhya a leading theory will be shown later, a striking feature
of similarity with the theories of two eminent physicists, Einstein
and Maxwell will establish its credentials. Summarising
Einstein’s gravitation equation first and then Maxwell’s Electro-
magnetic equation schematically:

Einstein:
If variations in geometry of space-time is Vgps then
Vgps = [1] stress energy + [2] mass-energy + [3] momentum
energy of source.

Maxwell:
If variations in E and B directions of space is VBEF then
VBEF = [2] rate of change of E & B fields + [3] change of
momentum (current)

In Sankhya, the figures in brackets identifies the equivalent areas
and unifies it by a single equation:

Cyclic count rate of interactive vibrations in space: -

Unit ratio = [1] Simultaneous counts = [2] resonant counts + [3]
radiating counts.

Alternatively, TriGuna mode = [1] Thaamasic counts = [2]
Rajasic counts + [3] Satwic counts.

Or interactive mode = [1[Compressive value = [2] resonant
coupling value + [3] expansive value

Both Einstein's Vgps (sum of 1+2+3) and Maxwell's VEBF (sum
of 2+3) are not true equations for it's solutions lead to an
absolute or arbitrary value. The deficiency is even more
noticeable when one takes into consideration the fact that the
momentum conservative qualities of any field equation must be
related to its source. It would be an axiomatic statement to say
51
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
that any principle of unification leads to the identification of its
source. Nowhere in physics is there an axiomatic identification
of the mathematical logic or the method of quantifying a source
value.
Sankhya has shown that all measurements; detection and
recognition of phenomenal interactions are due to a variation in
its state of existence. Therefore it leads to an axiomatic statement
that measurements must be only due to relative difference and
becomes finite when it equals the minimum value of the source.
Maxwell showed through mathematical rigour that
electromagnetic waves act ‘by and off’ themselves unlike sound
waves. However, Sankhya logic corrects this view by exposing
the undetectable coherent region of simultaneous, self-similar
and therefore perpetual activity that makes the source of
phenomenon undetectable. When this coherent field of space is
accelerated ‘instantly’, it produces the time varying (non
synchronised or non coherent) Maxwell type of cyclic
phenomenon of dissipating the energy, stored in the substratum
by absorbing decaying activity, as electromagnetic waves.
Sankhya mathematics shows that when the coherent state of
components in space is broken by non-synchronous or time
varying activity, the regaining of coherence is attained by
resonant absorption of non-synchronous activity. Such activity is
radiated as incremental counts of energy which, sequentially
decays back into space, over a period. It leads to an important
conclusion that the photon must decay in 1017 cycles or seconds
in physics. While electromagnetic theory does not lead to this
conclusion presently, the enigma of the redshift in the energy
spectrum relative to distance (discovered by Hubbles) is an
indirect confirmation of the decay. Redshift indicates an increase
in potential in the coherent state. The logic of Sankhya clarifies
this aspect mathematically through the relevant Suthras.
By applying the Sankhyan principle of Simultaneity, which
identifies the axiomatic value of a source, one immediately sees
that the fundamental cause of a light or sound wave is identical.
Similarly, Einstein’s geodesics are ‘straightest-curved-paths’ in
52
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
empty space due to the build up of stress or mass due to
curvature. In Sankhya logic, all interactions within the cycle ‘or
instant’ are straight-line paths. An interaction must follow a
straight path unless influenced by factors that follow an
interactive process. Subsequent interactions, due to the
continuation of the action-reaction cycle, will vary in time and a
sum of such sequential reactions will show the path to be a
'curvature'. In other words, no interaction in this universe ever
follows a curved path at any instant. The accelerative sequential
interaction in a confined domain follows a curved path.
Sankhyan derivation shows that non-coherent interactive
displacements always sum up to π/10. It is the comparative ratio
of a cyclic interactive period between the linear and radial
directions, at any instant. Sankhya self similar logic shows that
the axiomatic perpetual activity over the entire past builds up the
stress due to obstruction of decaying or dissipating activity.
Sankhya avoids logical conundrums by axiomatically showing
that any sea of elementary components, whatever it might be,
must follow self-similar and scale-invariant laws that will result
in the phenomenon we experience. In other words, even a large
volume of air or water molecules will follow self-similar laws at
locations far removed from other influences. Most important, the
act of measurement is a disturbance that breaks the coherent state
and hides the self-similar law from the observer.
The Purusha components in space are mathematically definable;
precise in action and its vibratory aspect forms the
holographically produced states we call matter. Even the velocity
of light and the Newtonian gravitational constant, among others,
are axiomatically derived through Sankhya Guna principles that
show the true theoretical value, which is clearly not the case in
current physics. While in physics and cosmology dimensional
logic does not provide a selective formulation, in a holographic
environment only coherent, synchronous and harmonic
phenomenon are observably relevant and provides axiomatic cut-
off boundaries. It simply means that there is no need to provide
a measured or empirical input into Sankhya to complete the
53
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
theory. Another important aspect is that an interaction always
acts in a straight line along the axis of impact. The subsequent
deviations in the reactions and consequent interactions provide
the curvature in the trajectory. Only intense activity can
introduce ‘curvature’ into space. Sankhya equates the balance
of such interactive reactions within the cycle or its simultaneous
regime. Therefore the mathematics in Sankhya restricts the
analysis to linear processes and factors like π do not form a part
of the equations in the simultaneous and resonant states and in
that sense it is unlike calculus in physics. The value of π is
naturally derived as a cut-off point when outward bound
interactions turn inward precisely at the nuclear radius. Beyond
it, the interaction flips over to opposite state thereby giving the
impression of spin half-fermionic particle. This characteristic
behaviour becomes evident only through self-similar
mathematics.
The holographic functioning of space and manifestation of
phenomenon forms an extremely advanced concept and would
take many years of experimental familiarisation for it to gain
general scientific acceptance. However, its extraordinary,
austere, axiomatic mathematical logic will inexorably compel the
mentally flexible and objective intellectual to accept its
principles. Maharishi Kapila demonstrated that true axioms
cannot be disproved and its validity is eternal which factor
provided the strongest intellectual reason to endow science with
a divine base. It provided the axiomatic base long sought by
physics and unified space into the appropriate substratum needed
to complete cosmological theory.
Among many axiomatic statements spelt out in Sankhya, seven
of them structured the fundamental state in such away as to make
the theory perfect. Maharishi Kapila emphasised that firstly
space cannot be ‘nothing’. It emphasised the point that a perfect
theory cannot be based on an illogical foundation. It introduced
the concept of reinforcing ambivalent pedagogic logic with
numerical certainty.

54
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Secondly, all phenomena can be described meaningfully, only in
a relational mode by comparing like with like qualities. Counting
objects or events of the same kind was a simple and certain
method of ensuring a relational measure. The sameness of
quality could be ensured by reducing a known and ascertained
object or activity to its ultimate logical level that established an
axiomatic connection with the original quality.
Thirdly, the quality of elementarity or fundamental nature of an
object or activity must be derived from within the theory itself
through rigorous logic. Confirmation by iterative derivations
using several well-established axiomatic parameters would
eliminate any uncertainty through a process of redundancy.
Interactions in the fundamental state, far from external
influences, can only follow self-similar ratios derived through
axioms.
The resonant activities of the manifest state can be equated only
with the unmanifest (or hidden) axiomatic quantum or cycle or
the simultaneous (singularities) state must equal the sum of the
observable (weak & electromagnetic domains) sequential states.
A complete theory must derive all its requirements, as an
axiomatic consequence from within itself to maintain its integrity
for any error in an externally derived hypothesis can be fatal.
A perfect theory must loop back to provide the qualities of
elementary space needed to sustain phenomenon so that its very
description provides the proof and nature of its existence.
The question naturally arises as to how these simple axioms can
form a basis to reformulate decades of scientific thinking
founded on rigorous mathematical concepts that have been
refined to unimaginable levels of complexity. As the following
three points will show that the foregoing method has been the
caveat, Firstly, all languages are only codes built on some adhoc
logic that does not have an absolute base of reference. It is a
product of the Tower of Babel! Hence understanding any
pedagogic communication is a learnt process and the inherent
errors make it unsuitable for conveying precision. Sankhya chose

55
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
axiomatic statements based on relative logic because axiomatic
concepts are real for all times.
Being a comparative analysis it had relevance even to studies
conducted in the distant future. Secondly, while mathematics in
science was built on the precise logic of a numerical unit,
communicating complex phenomenon (in real space) through
such reasoning lacked an absolute base as it was connected
unequivocally to the dimensionality of real events. The validity
of an abstract Euclidean geometry in a flat plane had to be
supported by the Gaussian concept of closed surfaces plus the
Reimannian metric of pseudo-surfaces. All of which followed
independent rules but depended absolutely on the logic of a point
(a true singularity) which unfortunately had a real ‘zero’ value in
physics. These concepts hide a very serious error. Magnifying
100 fundamental ‘points’ in a square area into cubes will show
that it cannot be divided equally into 50 units along the diagonal
While divisions parallel to the axis will give 50 cubes in each
half, the diagonal division will produce unequal lots of 45 and 55
cubes following the expression ½ (n2 + n) or ½ (n2 - n).
However, the “points” concept would not have highlighted this
aspect.
 The consequences of this inequality are quite extraordinary.
When both axis are in a synchronous resonant state the counts
reduce to 10, demonstrating a coherent, static and spherical state.
When non-synchronous the count measure rises to a range of
entangled counts (vector phases of both axis of 45/55 counts)
displaying vectorial characteristics dependant on the relational
angle within the cycle time of ten counts. Beyond a ten-count
state, the entangled state is broken up and a totally non-
synchronous and non-coherent state is established that displays
energy radiating characteristics.       In a real situation all
measurements are a vectorial combination of potential and
kinetic factors that makes it necessary to apply the principle of
unequal division at the fundamental level. As one can see that
with very large numbers the inequality virtually disappears and

56
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
does not affect the numerical results significantly. The atomic
periodic table follows the combinatorial formula stated earlier.
Sankhya axiomatically defined the ‘zero’ in reality as the
Moolaprakriti with an internally derived numerical ratio that
matched observed phenomenon perfectly. Since the axiomatic
logic matched reality, it provided space with real ‘points’ that
showed it could not be ‘empty’. Thirdly, the abstract
mathematical concept of clock time in calculus was arbitrarily
split into the interval of an instant and its sum as a period. Both
of which were applied equally to real phenomenon in space that
had built into it three irrefutable and logical aspects of past,
present and future time. Logically such an equation was not
complete. Sankhya, displaying the height of intellectual clarity
placed both space and time on the same footing of it being a non
observable parameter, for what man really detected was the
completion of an interactive cycle. The repetition of this cycle in
three ways gave him an indirect measure of both space and time
and its numerous variants as manifestations. Putting it in simple
terms, it meant that ‘No interactions – No Universe’. Completion
of a cycle meant a quantum of both space and time in an
interactive state created an observable and sustaining it a
phenomenon on a real base. It was a Hologram in short. Vedic
description of this state was termed as Maya or measured
illusion. Conservation principles demanded the effect of the past
be included as a usable parameter, in the simultaneous state. For
the source, contained the present plus future parameters, in the
weak / resonant interactions and expansive / radiative states of an
interactive field. Sankhya mathematics starts with the equation
when the instant equals the period as the unified state. The
instant is the sum of all interactions in the past and the sum of
present / future interactions must equal it. This equation is
unique. It identifies the source with a specific relational value
that quantifies the 4π of the Gaussian field and the 8π of
Einstein’s tensor field and E&B Maxwell fields etc. It leads to
scale invariance and self-similarity in interactions that provide
the only way to unify all the laws of interactions. Unification
57
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
demands the identification of the Source and where else would
one search for the Source but in the sum of all interactions in the
past? Nowhere in current physics or cosmology is there any true
equation of state connecting past, present and future that is an
indivisible part of the whole cosmic experience.




58
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                           Simplified View

If the question ‘Can one understand Sankhya easily?’ is asked
the answer is “Even a child can but an adult would have to give
up his preconceived notions first”. As a simple example, take a
cube as a unit object. If it cannot be divided or split, it attains the
definition of elementarity. If it can be divided then the first
process of division (assuming a limit) leads to a sequence of
actions that can be repeated endlessly. If that procedure cannot
be changed it can be made into a rule, axiom or law. The cube
shown below can be one or more than one.




The two cubes below are joined together by glue.




The two cubes below are separated because the glue has allowed
it to expand.




The two cubes below have separated and moved away.




Taking the single cube as a model, joining it by a glue, then
splitting it and further separating it, shows that while the cubes
59
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
remain the same, only the gaps change. Hence, conceptually the
glue here is time. The cubes being elemental and real cannot
change but the gap or space can change. Therefore, only time,
the glue, must be accounted for in terms of the number of cubes
involved. Putting 8 cubes together brings the cubic form back in




               Fig: Elemental Space In Cubic Form
proportion to the original cube. The faces joined or glued are 24
in number. Hence, a formulation can be made that when a cubic
form is doubled the 24 faces must be joined by a ‘glue’. In
principle, whatever activities are involved in the scaling up
process must also apply to all such similar expansive operations.

Unit time    12 =1        1x1=1        1+1=2        1-1=0
Time2        22 =4        2x2=4        2+2=4        2-2=0
                          1x4=4        1+3=4        1-3=-2
Time3        23 =8        4x2=8        4+4=8        4-4=0
                          1x8=8        3+5=8        3-5=-2
                                       2+6=8        2-6=-4
                                       1+7=8        1-7=-6
Time4        24 =16       8x2=16       8+8=16       8-8=0
                          4x4=16       7+9=16       7-9=-2
                          1x16=16      6+10=16      6-10=-4
                                       5+11=16      5-11=-6
                                       4+12=16      4-12=-8
                                       3+13=16      3-13=-10
                                       2+14=16      2-14=-12

60
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                                    1+15=16       1-15=-14

On converting the concept into numbers, the above relationship
emerges. Simplifying the ratios eliminates the even numbers and
shows only the odd numbers as irreducible or minimal ratios as
shown below
Unit time   12 =1        1x1=1         1+1=2        1-1=0
     2       2
Time        2 =4         1x1=1         1+1=2        1-1=0
                         1x4=4         1+3=4        1-3=-2
Time3       23 =8        2x1=2         1+1=2        1-1=0
                         1x8=8         3+5=8        3-5=-2
                                       1+3=4        1-3=-2
                                       1+7=8        1-7=-6
Time4       24 =16       4x1=8         1+1=2        1-1=0
                         1x1=1         7+9=16       7-9=-2
                         1x16=16       3+5=8        3-5=-2
                                       5+11=16      5-11=-6
                                       1+3=4        1-3=-2
                                       3+13=16      3-13=-10
                                       1+7=8        1-7=-6
                                       1+15=16      1-15=-14

The sequence at time4 is a repeat of the first sequence as 8
represents the proportionate expansion of 2 to 8 as cubic space.
But 16 represents 8+8 or a repeat of the first addition of 1+1=2
and therefore the entire process can be repeated again at a higher
level of twice the original level. As time is being accounted for
in terms of objects, the unit or count represents an event. Taking
all the odd number of events together the total ads up to
1+3+5+7+9=25 and reversing the process to keep it a cyclic
event adds another 25. The total then is 50 in a cyclic process.
The gluing of 8 cubes showed 24 faces or time events to be
counted. The one additional event was the common bonding of
all 8 corners of the 8 cubes right in the centre. That event was
common to all and emerged as a natural outcome of the

61
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
expansion process of 2 to 8 cubes. The sequence of 25 in both
directions gives a cycle of 10 counts as follows.
1          3           5          7           9      =25
9          7           5          3           1      =25
10         10          10         10          10     =50

This simplified structure is explained in detail in the Suthras.
Similarly, if two sticks are used as model a whole sequence of
characteristics can be derived. Place two of them end to end and
you have doubled the length and initiated the counting process
by addition. Take three sticks and place them so that all ends
touch and you have not only created a triangle and the seed of
geometry too. Intrigued by the closed shape, place another
triangle with two sides next to each other and create a diamond
shape or a parallelogram. Double this structure again by
repeating the last action. Place them in such a way to create a
central point. Then one gets four triangles in circular mode. Two
more triangles can be fitted to create six triangles in a hexagonal
shape. This is a circular shape typical of a cyclic process and the
shows possibility of the entire ensemble being moved or shifted
by the coherent central point.
So far no particular theoretical knowledge was used in arriving at
this stage except a logical and flexible outlook of seeking
possibilities, In the process the seeds of arithmetic, geometry and
trigonometry, centre of mass characteristics, have been laid.
Now the six-sided figure can be halved in each of the six
sections to get a twelve-sided figure. Continuing the process of
halving each section, till the final part becomes too small to
divide further, leads to the concept of deriving π as a
transcendental value. Tracing the string of divided sections leads
to discovering the infinitesimal rotation, vectors, tensors,
Reimann, Gauss and Euclid’s geometries etc. Analysing the 12-
sided figure yields the possibility of a four-sided figure, a square
with right angles. The symmetry of the square in one plane leads
to the concept of a cube in three planes or dimension, displaying

62
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the true nature of space. A cube can also be viewed as a volume
containing some elemental objects with total freedom to move
but restricted symmetrically and simultaneously from all six
axial directions. If the restriction from all sides loses its
simultaneous aspect but is symmetric, a spherical shape becomes
evident. If the symmetry too is lost then a random change of,
volume comes into play that cannot be defined specifically
except for a very short duration.
Space can be packed with elemental cubes without any wasted or
adjustable space reproducing a larger cubic space A cubic box
can be packed with eight cubes just by halving along the length
in all three directions. Halving each cube in a similar way N
number of times gives 8N number of cubes. The limit of N will
be reached logically when the side of a cube equals the gap
produced by the dividing process. In other words, the length of
the original box will be N times the length of each cube-side plus
the gap equals to the former. Then one can describe the original
length as N times ‘length of object’ and ‘gap in space’. The
object and gap being equal it can interchange or commute
without changing the original length.
If this commuting process is made rapid, the standing wave state
of an oscillating mechanism is produced in three-dimensional
form that can be accounted for by mere counting in some cyclic
measure. Comparing the rate, say along the x-axis direction with
that of the y-axis indicates two types of phases. It is either a
synchronised ratio equal to one or a variation that takes a number
of commutations to reach the same count ratio of one. With ratio
one along all axes, the commutations or oscillating process
reaches a static holographic state. The description of this form is
just that of a simple cube, as length cubed or L3. However, a
complex regime of changeable forms is hidden in this hologram,
with a potential, proportional to the number of cubic forms
existing in it. In other words, just by intellectual analysis the
inquirer finds that he has the ability to ‘see’ the limitless
possibilities of combinations inside the cubic form. It breaks
open the shackle of preconceived notions that the human mind
63
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
has placed on the importance of externalised events, to the point
of ignoring internal structures as being of no importance.
This is an axiomatic, transparent and proof-less process that any
human being can practice and accept as being logical. One can
continue with this process of creating physically ‘logical’ states
to draw meaningful conclusions. If space can be described as
being of cubic shape using the smallest possible measuring rod
of one fixed size, then all descriptions of, any space can be made
by the same process. It is totally dimensionless as an applied
dimension in both nominator & denominator cancels out leaving
a numerical ratio. If one tries to increase the size of space using
the same measuring rod the next size must necessarily be of two
units cubed or 8 times the first one. That is 7 cubes have been
added by this action. A little mental reflection will show that at
the truly elemental level the above conclusion is correct and
forms an axiomatic statement. If the rod or cube can be
fractionalised then it cannot be called truly elementary.
Now if the operation is reversed, starting with a huge cube, say
as big as the Universe, one can reach the elemental size, arrived
at earlier, by a number of steps of cubic reduction. The cube so
arrived at would seem so insignificant in size in relation to the
Universe sized cube that it would logically be termed as a point
in space. Today’s science viewed the Sankhyan cube as a mere
point-in-space and created complex mathematical routines to
deal with it. However, Sankhya took the other view and
increased the single numerical cubic value to complex levels by
mere addition without losing the fundamental relationship. One
can immediately see that it is next to impossible to derive simple
fundamental laws from a complex level of large numbers with
numerous modes of behaviour. However, it is easy to
moronically extrapolate a simple correct rule to any higher level
of numerical value. This is precisely what Maharishi Kapila has
stated as an axiomatic rule in Suthra 23.
One can gain an overall perspective by viewing the Sankhya
treatise as an intellectual process of investigation the source of
all phenomena. Its importance is enhanced when it is realised
64
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
that it only involves a simple process of counting stable
vibrations, caused by axiomatic states of harmonic balance. Its
conceptual uniqueness is confirmed by the lack of prior
postulates of any kind, to aid the investigation of fundamental
space. The earlier description of mental exploration into a variety
of logical possibilities in viewing real space, was in fact a
process of drawing hypothetical conclusions. Instead of applying
constraints on the intellectual process through arbitrary
postulates, Sankhya showed that axioms, being natures
postulates, allowed the intellectual process to flow naturally
along reasoning processes that the mind felt comfortable with.
Mathematics, however complex it may seem, is only a simple
process of iterative counting. Proportionality enables scaling up
to extremes. When 1/2 is a dependable ratio then ½ raised to the
nth level maintains the proportionality. Compounding such ratios
made calculations easier but also made it look complex. Hence
Sankhya takes two as ratio and derives all universal parameters
to show its inherent simplicity.
Sankhya prescribed a natural mode of thinking because it
established with positive proof that there was only one law of
interaction that produced all the observable and hidden
phenomena in the Universe. The Guna laws, following self-
similar principles, operated identically in any fundamental field.
The cerebral field too, in its fundamental state had to follow the
same Guna laws. Hence, Sankhya laid out an effective process of
intellectual analysis and confirmation, through the Siddhi
process. The mind followed axiomatic laws in creating
interactive mental phenomenon in a meditative state. Sankhya
logic was impeccable in arriving at this conclusion.
Maharishi Kapila established all phenomena was of a
holographic nature or a frozen ensemble of vibrations in the
substratum of space. The human mind too reproduced all
phenomena within the cerebral field as a holographic state using
the very same Guna laws. In other words, the mind restructured
natural phenomenon as mental holograms. It was the most
natural process as all phenomena was only a hologram and there
65
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
was only one law to create such a hologram, the three forms of
Gunas. Hence, the Siddhi process of meditative analysis was the
most effective way to understand everything.
From it emerges an extremely simplified view of all
manifestation, that, if an object is free to move there is only
linear motion due to an interaction. However, a component, in a
confined plenum or ‘sea’ of identical ones, can only pass on any
motion as vibrations to the adjacent units. Then, only a change,
in the rate of cyclic vibrations from a stable resonant ratio of
two, is detected as phenomenon. In space stable oscillatory
activities, in a state of freedom, are volumetric or three
dimensional in nature. Any transition to a non-resonant state
must necessarily exceed the two-cubed (8) ratio, which involves
an incremental value equivalent to seven volumetric ratios before
it becomes an observable. It contributes to the well known
spectral qualities of such a quantum.
The gigantic range of phenomenon is due to the variation in the
numbers of simultaneous aggregation of vibrations in the
substratum, which acts as a continuum. As the process of
measurement is one of detecting a change in the rate of
vibrations, it takes a time-cycle; hence, it results in measuring it
in “cupfuls” as a quantum. While the interaction in space is not
quantised but the difference between adjacent states follows the
arithmetical series of 1,2,3,6,10,15,21,28,36,45,55 or
0,1,1,2,3,5,8, 13,21,34,55 etc, all of which are dealt with in the
main Suthras.
The concept of a field is brought out axiomatically. A unit count
of 1 added to another totals to 2. That is two one-counts behave
simultaneously. The unit 2 can be cubed to maximise into a
cubic form. Reality is cubic and 23 = 8 are the maximum in that
simultaneous state that reflects a real state. Similarly the
minimum can be logically shown to be 21/3 = 1.259921=k. Then
k forms that element which related to 8=k9 in the same period
and the ratio k8 becomes the link to the maximum in the
simultaneous state. In terms of a field concept k the movable
linear element forms the simultaneous number as k3 = 2 = 81/3 in
66
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the same instant or the cycle of change at same location. The
value k8 is a simultaneous and 8-1=7 the sequential rate of
change in this range of counts. Scaling 2n gives the scale
invariant proportionality to any level of numbers. Hence, in
Sankhya k the elemental field state maximises to k9 instantly or
within a cycle.
Any field theory must necessarily be based on a continuum of
elemental states in the substratum but interactions in the field
take time, so it would seem to be quantised. The quantised value
must have some axiomatic relationship to the field in which it is
created. While the instantaneous value of an interaction is the
product or square of its value, if such interactions take place
from all six or orthogonal directions to meet at a point, then its
value rises as the sixth power. For simultaneous interactions
must be evaluated logarithmically. Taking c as the value it rises
to c2 on interacting and if such a value interacts towards a point
from all the six directions, it becomes (c2) 3 = c6. Alternatively, if
a cubic state of c3 interacts with another such value, it too rises to
c6. Then the interval can logically be evaluated as 1/c 6, which
sets the value of a point in the field. Hence, a point in space can
be fixed at 1/ c6 as the unit interval that cannot move.
The point in space is an observable that behaves as a
simultaneous conglomerate. It is similar in concept to the surface
of the sun or earth acting together simultaneously or as a single
unit. But the inner or centre of such a unit can be theoretically
divided into smaller components. If c6 taken as an unit be cubed
again to reach the final level at c18 , it then defines the axiomatic
limit of the core of a point. This sequence can be repeated in the
same proportion endlessly but from an observers point of view
the 18th power gives a stable, definable and final limit to an
intellectual excursion into definitions. Similarly, all even
numbered interactions result in an even division, which leaves
the field in a balanced state. However, odd numbered
interactions cannot be divided equally so it remains in the
unbalanced interactive state. The sum of all such states is a
Catalan or 0.915. Therefore, a ratio of the Catalan and c 6 gives
67
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the smallest interval, delay, mass, or inertia. A very fundamental
value has been derived by simple logic for the moolaprakrithi .
Further, a standingwave is maintained at a oscillating ratio of
It must be realised that while a measuring cup or quanta are
being filled it is the interactive process that is filling it. If the
time to complete an interaction takes aeons the observer has no
means of knowing for he can detect only the completion by the
reaction. A major caveat of the holographic concept is that there
can be no such thing as a linear velocity or a physical transport
of objects in the substratum. Only a transfer of vibratory
ensembles, take place at a rate numerically equal to the velocity
of light, when there is an obstruction to maintaining the resonant
vibratory state. Therefore, at the very fundamental level there are
no such discrete things as conventional particles. However, the
observer finds it convenient to describe phenomena that exist in
stable coherent oscillatory states as if they consisted of protons,
electrons, photons, and quarks.
Suthra 62 very succinctly explains that no object or thing is
created, bound, released, radiated etc, but only Prakriti
(interactive vibrations) in its numerous variations, transmigrate
across the identical components of the Substratum as vibratory
phenomenon. It clarifies through Suthras 55 to 68 that when the
passive but massive Purusha at the core, loses its freedom to
remain stress-free, it’s slightest deflection to regain freedom,
creates the Prakriti avalanche. It transmigrates instantly towards
the offending boundary where it attempts to recreate the stress
free state of Kaivalya through interactions that may become
observable. The axiomatic base shows clearly that such varied
factors as the Planck mass / neutron or proton / electron mass
ratio, the electromagnetic fields, the structure coupling constants,
the quantised charge, the spectral behaviour of strong, weak, EM
forces and in general all observable parameters are only due to
one process – the vectorial aggregation of vibrations based on
purely axiomatic principles that follow self similar and scale
invariant laws.

68
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
In a colliding interaction, if the action and reaction were
instantaneous the compressive stress count would equal the
expansive stress value. The instant is defined precisely and
axiomatically as the cube of the interval between interactions.
The interval between interactions is the product of their
individual values. If ten people clapped sequentially, one could
count all ten events. If they all clapped together in 1/10 3 time
interval, the event had to be classified as a simultaneous one.
The axiomatic mathematics proved the definition.
Reality is truly a holographic phenomenon - for there is no way
for any observer to detect the passive Purusha components
directly, except through its vibrations! Three dimensional tresses
due to interactions either remain as a cohesive, coherent or
conglomerate group or seem to be in constant motion otherwise.
The former state in a stable resonant configuration get the title of
particles etc. Otherwise, the harmonics are labelled as
waveforms The simple reason is, in reality; the observer status is
conferred only on a collective group of vibrations located on the
Purusha! The negative results of the well known Michelson
Morley experiments to test the characteristics of ether gives
ample confirmation that space is not empty. It substantiates the
fact that it is the only result, one can expect when all forms of
manifestation are holographic in nature; that is, where only
vibrations move on a non moving base! Further,the paramaeter
that the observer measures si merely the change in time and




69
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




                    Background Of Sankhya

The Indian historical background has projected an image that the
Suthras are a philosophical composition expressing atheistic
principles. Therefore, it invited the conclusion, even from
eminent scholars and Acharyas, that it was separate from and
inferior to the Vedas. However the earliest available commentary
by Gaudapada ascribes the composition to Maharishi Kapila. It
described him as the sixth son of Brahma, apparently
contradicting the earlier view. However, his views are supported
by the fact that Sankhya is specifically quoted as the source of
phenomenal field principles in the Bhagavadgita chapter 2 verse
37 as a part of the Mahabharata epic. Despite all the
controversial statements, the contents of this purely intellectual
creation by Maharishi Kapila is strictly confined to deriving the
principles of all manifestation. It defines the very fundamental
level of the Substratum and has no religious, sectarian or
ideological bias.
In the short human history of scientific investigation, there is no
parallel to Sankhya. It must be emphasised that Sankhya not only
provides a logical way to find all the missing answers in modern
physics but lays out the mathematical principles of super-
symmetry of the holographic Substratum to cover every aspect
that man may need in the future. The core Suthras provide
unequivocal axiomatic numerical solutions to essential questions
long posed by the physics fraternity which eminently validates
its logic. Hence, it is more than likely that a number of scientific
parameters found in Sankhya would be new to physics and
cosmology. In any case, the fact that Sankhya enables science to
mathematically identify space in specific terms, is indeed a big
leap forward, for current physics is based on the postulate that
cosmic space is empty.
70
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
This book is, in the main, based on the translation by various
authors of the straightforward meaning of the Sankhyakarika or
Sankhya Yoga by Ishwarkrishna, (commentary by Gaudapada
and transliterated by H. H. Wilson and a companion volume
“Classical Sankhya”, transliterated and commented by Gerald
Larsen). The proving sequel of it’s secret meanings is presented
here, apparently for the first time, as an informal dissertation,
along with an introduction to the new form of calculative logic
of integer mathematics. It was necessary to take this
unconventional approach to bring out the true essence of
Maharishi Kapila’s treatise in an unequivocal and
understandable way, especially when numerous existing
translations by erudite intellectuals had already seeded the minds
of interested readers with the apparent or obvious import of this
extra-ordinary thesis
  There are two possible reasons for the ineffectiveness of
previous translators in exposing it’s real meaning. The
intellectual depth of the Sankhyakarika was grossly misjudged,
for the all-important first Suthra seems to have been
misunderstood by them. Further, there seems to have been a
lacuna in understanding the instructions given in the Suthras on
three points. Firstly, according to Suthra 32, the numerical values
of activities were logarithms or powers to the base 10. Secondly,
groups of Suthras formed complex logical units that could be
understood only by treating it as a single structural ensemble
through the analytical Siddhi process of Suthra 6. Thirdly, Suthra
69 indicates it to be of a secretive nature implying that special
care should be taken in decoding its contents and Suthra 70
specifically indicates the hierarchy of transmission mainly to
verify it’s correctness. A detailed analysis of the viewpoints in
previous translations is given in appendix D, as ‘Comparison”
along with a copy of the complete translation of 72 Suthras in
English depicting the apparent or obvious level of meaning. It is
from the published second edition of Gerald Larsen’s
Sankhyakarika, and is given for ready reference and comparison,
while the present book deals only with the core meaning,
71
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
transmission of which to posterity, was the stated goal in
Sankhya.
At some moment in life, man must have wondered about the
cause of cosmic phenomenon and the role of human existence in
it. The complexity of manifestation must have coloured and
confused the result of such musings and conditioned man to
readily accept the concept and need for an all powerful, all
embracing dynamic creator, of a static but evolving reality, the
Universe. The aesthetic thinker, on the other hand, found the
dichotomy of substituting the complex but knowable universe
with an elegant but unknowable creator, difficult to explain
logically, without bringing in further assumptions, again as a
precondition. The need for a logically perfect and impeccable
solution motivated thinkers to find a natural and easy process
that would derive it from within its own background - the human
mind. However, the structure and functioning of the Substratum
of the mind had to be understood, again, only by logic. Here was
a real problem and solving it needed a total or holistic approach.
In Sankhya, the principles are for the observer and developed by
the observer, the human being. While the process is subjective, it
is derived objectively by a system of rigorous logic constructed
from the fundamental level as axiomatic principles.
The problem of understanding the Universe, by an observer who
is an integral part of it, is like a man who has lost his way, deep
in a forest, trying to estimate its depth, so that he could exit by
the shortest route. He then seeks the logical mid-point to chart
the quickest way out of the mathematical jungle that he has
created to represent reality in the abstract. Hence the process of
understanding phenomenon must be perfected only by logical
thinking and at the same time recognise when the process and
solutions are correct, for the process of analytical thinking itself
is an integral part of the very phenomenon man is attempting to
unravel. Since Sankhya covers the entire spectrum of
manifestation, any attempt at isolating it as a set of principles
solely applicable to humans (or the living species, as the

72
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
apparent meaning of the Suthras imply) can result in erroneous
conclusions.
The process of communicating any idea is through a code of
sounds or script we call a language. (See Appendix 6 for the
derivation of Sanskrit). It does not have an absolute base of
reference, for it must be learnt by a process of association, and
the method of its interpretation, leaves many gaps between what
is being communicated and that which is received. Detection,
measurement, information, knowledge, language and
mathematics are all based on a procedure, for decoding a
variation in a common, monotonous, background state. A black
dot on a large white background is the start for written language.
Clipping a monotonous tone into staccato sounds, form the basis
of spoken language. The telegraphic Morse code is just a mixture
of short & long sound pips, light flashes or dots & dashes on
paper in contrasting colour. On and off electrical pulses,
continuous frequencies of electromagnetic waves transmitted
with differing mark space ratios or numerous similar variations
& modulations in a continuos single frequency transmission,
form the basis of computer processing, electronic information,
television & radio entertainment systems. Hence, all languages
are coded tools of human communication, in which the
pedagogical variety has a built in ambiguity whereas
mathematical logic provides a higher degree of precision and
certainty. Hence, mathematical concepts are essential to maintain
precision and necessarily form an integral part of any language
of communication.
Monotonous oscillatory states do not constitute information or
intelligence but form the necessary dynamic background to
become extremely informative if it is varied on some logical,
cyclic basis. Again, a continuous interactive state requires a
dynamic background to control and sustain it. The intelligent
observer will notice the Universe is full of such information
provided he learns to decode it. Detection is not possible in a
unitary, singular, or cyclic state that causes no difference in a
cycle or in communication parlance, the carrier wave must be
73
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
modulated to make it meaningful. A single frequency state
becomes unmanifest or undetectable. It is an absolute, dynamic,
background state of something, not nothing. Sankhya lays great
emphasis through Suthras 7 to 10, that the activity of vibrations
must have a physical or real base and it is totally and utterly
illogical to accept that an oscillatory activity can be initiated in
empty space. On the contrary, if the observer is unable to detect
a cycle of changing vibrations he may erroneously conclude that
space is empty and devoid of “objects”.
In this work, reference has been deliberately made to translations
of the Sankhya Karika by foreign authors for a very important
reason. Indian authors, invariably treated most Sanskrit works
and particularly the Vedas, with a great deal of reverence which
compelled them to accept unquestioningly the manuscripts
recorded from vocalised renderings. The Vedic brahminical
process of transferring knowledge through generations depended
on using man’s ability to learn, memorise and verbally transfer
knowledge and formed the basis of creating “Human books” for
posterity. As there are evidence of differences in the transcripts
of manuscripts on the same subject, a process of rationalisation
has been found necessary to do full justice to its abstruse
meanings. The hesitation on the part of our national authors, to
re-interpret apparently inconsistent information, has indeed set
us back from recovering priceless knowledge from these works.
Western translators have guestimated the age of the Suthras to be
concurrent to the rest of the Vedic works and is estimated to be
(postglacial) 10000 BC or later.
Lokmanya Tilak seems to have been the first Indian intellectual
to recognise and openly state that the apparent inconsistencies in
the Vedic works had a logical explanation (vide his books “The
Arctic home in the Vedas” and “The Orion”). After analysing the
geological and climatic anomalies in the Rig Veda, he
mathematically deduced the probable period of its origin as
being greater than ten thousand years, back in the pre-glacial era,
by a civilisation thriving in the polar region which was warm
then, due to the uneven variations in the equinoctial precession
74
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of the earth’s ecliptic. Along with other geological researchers he
had established through archaeological / geological evidence
available then, that the historical global inundation, due to the
melting of polar glaciers, occurred around 10,000 years ago. The
Lokmanya proposed that the complete spectrum of Vedic
knowledge had been resurrected in its entirety, after the
cataclysmic floods, by following the traditional brahminical
method of verbally propagating and aurally recovering
information, that was practised by our Vedic forefathers in the
pre-glacial period.
In the Atharvaveda, the 28 logical stellar positions (Nakshatra)
mentioned in detail enables one to conclusively identify that
period 32,000 years ago, by applying the ecliptic precessional
rate indicated in it (see appendix B). Deducting 10,000 years for
post-glacial recovery, a major portion of the remaining 22,000
years of pre-glacial development must have resulted in an
advanced civilisation, judging from our current achievements
even within the last 1000 years. The clue to the location of any
submerged archaeological evidence of the original civilisation,
far below the glacial ice, is given by the identification of the
22nd. stellar position, that would have been visible in that period.
It would have been somewhere between the 60 th and 80th.
Northern-parallel. Only 27 stellar positions are recognised and
used currently in Vedic astronomical almanacs etc. and seems to
be a postglacial correction, this validates the Lokmanya’s
hypothesis. Consequently, it can be logically concluded that the
Sankhyakarika and the Vedas originated from an advanced
civilisation, (see note 8) existing in the north polar region during
the pre-glacial period and therefore it really belongs to all
humanity and not just Indians, Aryans etc.
Even if the concept of an advanced civilisation seems
unpalatable to the present insular human race, the unexpected
and unexplainable depth of information in Sankhya
unequivocally confirms the point of view that it could not have
been from the evolving generations within the last 10,000 years.
Sanskritologist Max Muller, quoted in his introduction to the
75
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
translation of the RigVeda, “it is a task for the next century”. In
another context, he described it, apparently in a state of
exasperation, as the “infantile babbling of primitive tribes.”
Unfortunately, the latter view seems to have prevailed among the
western translators with the result the Sankhyakarika has not
been given the attention it deserved. Several eminent translators
have identified it as the earliest, highly condensed treatise in
Sanskrit. Therefore, the meanings of its words and phrases ought
to have been developed only by a technique of contextual
decoding (especially since Ishwarkrishna gives a strong clue in
Suthra 69, by the inclusion of an extremely ambivalent Sanskrit
term whose intrinsic meaning borders on hidden or secret
concepts in many subtle ways) rather than by applying
conventional translation methods under the normal rules of
semantics. The failure to realise the need for such a process has
left out the secret and hidden meanings contained in Sankhya.
In order to help the reader fully understand Sankhya principles, a
special lexicon (see appendix 6), created by a technique of
statistical verification, gives the current English technical term
closest in meaning to the Sanskrit phrases in the context in which
it is used in the Suthras.
There is considerable evidence that the Vedas are an expansion
of Sankhya principles covering the four aspects of understanding
phenomenon, namely: from knowledge gained by logical &
theoretical principles, established in the Rigveda; by practical
identification of key-triggering or initiating methods in the
Yajurveda; by a practical system of harmonising or unifying all
the required parameters, dealt with in the Samaveda and by the
identification of basic materials such as organic and inorganic
matter forming the chemical and genetic resources, identified in
the Atharvaveda. The four Vedas form a horizontal level grid of
equal importance but the brahminical system of vocalised
transmission of knowledge to future generations, necessitated a
vertical segmentation to make use of the synergistic natural
support given by genetic and social backgrounds.

76
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Veda means the science of unification by resonance. Ve is weave
or unite and Da is ‘that which is given or already exists’.
Sanskrit letters also have numerical values, which allows the
skilful presentation of a mathematical formula with a related
pedagogical meaning. The very first Suthra or Sloka in the
Rigveda is a theorem showing the method of extraction of free
energy from the Substratum and each letter in it has a sequential
numerical value accurate to 25 decimal places that defines the
expansive extractable quantum of energy and it’s equivalence to
currently known values is remarkable (See appendix 6). In the
Atharvaveda the very first sloka identifies the starting point scale
value for all theoretical calculations in the Substratum, both in
descriptive and numerical values and it’s uncanny numerical
equivalence to Planck’s findings is indeed startling (see
appendix?).
The subject content of the Sankhyakarika confirms the view of
many intellectuals that, all the epics like the Mahabharata,
Ramayana and other Puranas, are a dramatised three dimensional
live presentation of a field theory representing the super-
symmetric and self-organised state of the dynamic Substratum of
all phenomenon. Vedic ideology practised under the currently
recognised umbrella term of “Hinduism” coined by latter day
invaders of India, is indeed a ritualised procedure using the
quiescent power in the Substratum to maximum advantage that is
not only harmonious but also compatible with long term
conservation requirements of the global environment and total
energy balance. Vedic ideology was based on the fact that only
by acquiring a great depth of knowledge could one gain a high
degree of freedom to act but at the same time, it inculcated a
tremendous respect for the inviolability of natural or axiomatic
law that compelled the beholder to confer on it the mantle of
divinity. Sankhya principles show that the unique profusion of
genetic life on this planet is due to an extremely fine balance of
coherent oscillatory activity at a precise distance from the centre
of the our galaxy and the stellar sun. Sankhya re-focuses man’s
attention to the reality of universal phenomenon and exhorts him
77
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
to understand it’s laws, so that he could act correctly and
purposefully in consonance with it’s goals and in the process
willingly gain the wisdom to see the divinity in its existence.
Briefly, Sankhya and subsequently the Vedas strongly emphasise
that reality must be accepted without preconditions, postulates
and hypothetical constructs. In this sense, none of the current
theories in physics fulfils this criterion. Since the reality of the
universal phenomenon has never been in question, it becomes
axiomatic to accept the factuality of its foundation and the need
to maintain the constancy of its basic contents at the same level,
before and after any and all attempts at theoretically explaining
its functions. It means that the fundamental contents of a
holographic Universe, for example, it’s mass or it’s boundary
radius or it’s period of existence or other such postulated
parameters, cannot be taken into account in generating a theory
and therefore any such attempt would be futile as it stands for an
absolute and changeless state. Moreover, a perfect and complete
theory must avoid the pitfalls of definitions based on arbitrary
characteristics and develop its own relational logic that describes
phenomenon in relative values of a purely axiomatic nature. The
logic is that absolute, open ended, unbounded, limitless
conditions cannot be dealt with by mathematics in a precise and
meaningful way but can only convey a subjective pedagogical
impression of notional limits.
An important aspect of mathematics must be kept in the mind of
the investigator that it is only a tool for modelling the behaviour
of reality under specified modes and the choice of such a system
must yield results naturally which means that the number of
inputs and the analytical steps in its process must be a minimum
if the conclusions are to have a high degree of certainty. It must
not be cumbersome to operate and the process must be easily
understandable through a simple logical procedure. Sankhya
highlights a caveat in formulating a mathematical approach when
dealing with reality at the fundamental level and that is the three
dimensional or volumetric aspect of natural phenomenon cannot
be excluded or separated in the analytical process. The Sankhya
78
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
approach overcomes single and two-dimensional analysis by
adopting a technique of counting cyclic changes in the vibratory
field of the Substratum. Therefore, the description of the
Universe is necessarily confined to quantifying its changes as
pure ratios based on appropriate axiomatic principles.
The learnt concept of clock time is a subjective one and leads to
the imagined instant & eternal polarised concept, similar to the
unreal zero & infinite numerical open ended limits. Clock time is
not an observable parameter nor is it naturally connected to
events that it helps to record for it is an arbitrary human creation.
Sankhya concept of time is very clear and unambiguous. In a
free and dynamically oscillating environment, any parameter
becomes observable or detectable only when it changes from its
normal resonant and synchronised state indicating an out of step
condition. The important part of this logic is that unless one
observes at least one cycle of event it would be impossible to
recognise a change. Then the smallest cycle of oscillatory events
becomes a natural unit of time in which periodic changes can be
represented as a comparative ratio applicable to all levels and the
repeatability or cyclic nature is axiomatically connected through
the concept of self similarity and scale invariance.
In a resonant and coherent state of monotonous activity the
notion of past, present and future becomes one which eliminates
the concept of reversibility of a time sequence, until asynchrony
sets in, due to internal or external causes. As an example
detecting the parameters of a rotating wheel depends entirely on
the strobe light frequency, its dwell time and the moment when
it’s cycle is started and an arbitrary change may indicate a
reversal of the true state. In short, if no change can be accounted
for then there cannot be any detectable manifestation and having
eliminated the absolutes as an influencing parameter, the
accountability is limited to phenomenon that can be termed only
as “local”. This factor brings home an important limitation that
non-local or unconnected regions cannot be brought within the
ambit of a real equation. Hence, equated solutions, resolving
problems of the whole Universe, cannot be real but only locally
79
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
derived principles can be applied by extrapolation to a finite
limit.
In a factual sense the Galactic phenomenon is local and
connected, for despite it’s diametrical dimension of
approximately 200,000 light years it remains a monolithic
ensemble acting as a single unit for billions of years.
Mathematical concepts applied to reality must produce
unequivocal solutions; else, its qualities of precision are lost.
Sankhya elucidates in Suthra 30 that in reality simultaneous
interactions are multiplicative or logarithmic and sequential
reactions are additive. In a field of components in a state of
freedom from external influences, at resonance the interactions
synchronise along all three axis, to create a relatively coherent or
stationery condition that enables the ensemble of vibrations to
act as a unit with centre-of-mass characteristics, for axial
synchrony aligns the vibrations to fall in step. In such a concept,
the ideological division between mass and energy is
automatically eliminated because only synchronised or
superposed vibrations exhibit mass characteristics. Therefore in a
resonant oscillatory state the third power of any rate of vibrations
forms a natural damping reaction because it forms a stationery
point or the algebraic sum of it’s co-ordinate change is zero and
provides the limit of a boundary (or a singularity) and eliminates
the need to postulate such cut off points.
A plenum or a closely packed sea of fundamental components, in
an unhindered state of freedom, far from the influence of its
bounded limits must follow laws that are described as self-
similar or derived from its own internal background. It is made
into an axiomatic rule in Sankhya because naturally obstructed
vibrations can only superpose with existing states, the numerical
identification of which is a pure axiom and such a series goes
under the commonly known name of Fibonnaci numbers. Vector
relationship within a cycle are an indicator of a phase change
that in reality spell out the degree of superpositioning of
vibrations leading to the concept of inertia and mass. In such a
situation then there are only three important points that
80
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
determine the scale of interaction, which are the maximum,
minimum and an internal balancing cut-off point that needs to be
derived to make the laws work successfully in such a plenum.
Therefore, the timing or duration in a cycle must be related to the
maximum and minimum rates as a quantised and constant factor
to ensure self-similarity and scale invariance. Sankhya principles
enable the derivation of a time-cycle quantum that is probably
unique to science and proves its validity by its specific numerical
association with the “nuclear particle” in its neutral state.
The Swabhava principle of self similarity, (derived in the main
text describing the three Gunas) provides a precise numerical
method of dealing with such concepts and a positive proof of the
existence of a third order damping constraint that induces
quantum states is defined. The synchronising or third order
coherent point is the instant when the product of the interactive
components values equal the sum of the sequentially reactive
component numbers within that cycle. It defines the ground or
reference state in an environment where everything is in motion.
This factor exposes the futility of evolving mathematical
techniques to deal with higher number (than 3) of spatial
dimensions. Number two has a special significance; the product
and sum of 2 are equal; therefore 4 becomes a stable unification
numeral and the cube of 2 is 8, which is twice the value of 4
signifying a stable or resonant oscillatory condition. The cube of
number 2 = 8 forms a scale-invariant static node which can be
raised to any power to deal with other scale levels, using the
same fundamental principles and embodies the third order
damping reaction that limits and contains phenomenon. ‘Two’ in
fact becomes the primary and basic unit that can be dealt with
logically at all levels whereas ‘one’ is a mathematically sterile
unit because logarithmic or multiplicative operations leave it
unchanged unless the principle of dimensionality is introduced.
The numeral One is an absolute ratio of infinity upon infinity;
hence it forms the natural limit of any comparative process like
an equation and is the basis of the conceptually advanced form
of integer mathematics that Sankhya uses. One or any number
81
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
can be factorised in two ways to represent reality correctly. The
product of factors (multiplicative) represent instantaneous or
simultaneous or synchronised values whereas the sum of factors
(additive) represent periodic or sequential or time- involved
processes. As an example, if nine vibrations occur one after an
another in a period the rate of oscillation would be one per event
that sums up to nine in a period of nine events. However, if the
nine vibrations occurred at the same instant the value per event
would be nine, summed up over the period and factually
represents the logarithmic nature of simultaneous action. The
nine simultaneous vibrations form the leading edge of a square
wave with a zero time base, which in the current mathematical
logic has no true or real solution. If nine people clapped their
hands sequentially the observer would be able to count nine
individual events but if they clapped simultaneously the one
event could be described by 1 x 9 or 3 x 3 as factors without
changing its intrinsic value. In an endless chain of moving
wagons each unit may contain varying numbers of stored
components which are conceptually seen as simultaneous
number ensembles of vibrations in transit on each wagon and
from a relative point of view it does not matter whether the
ensembles move from wagon to wagon or the wagon itself
moves. Maharishi Kapila emphasises, through Suthras 7 to 9,
that this hidden super-positioning factor has serious
ramifications in the physics of the Substratum.




82
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                       Clarity Of Thought.

Analysing phenomenon logically invariably led to reducing it to
its elemental level. Such a procedure succeeded because
counting the elemental components distinctively led to an
accurate equation of balance. As long as the process involved
static or stationary objects, the procedure remained simple and
traceable. Activity involved objects that moved or changed
location. Accounting for the interval or time period meant, that
the concept of accounting for objects had to be changed to
measuring elemental states of activity. Hence dealing with a
dynamic Universe through a single logical law that integrated
time and space as an unit, required an intellectual approach that
had not been introduced so far in science. Maharishi Kapila
created a unique and brilliant procedure to unify these two
seemingly opposing parameters. He considered the cubic solid to
be just the form of a vibrating set of parameters that remained in
the same location to imitate that permanent shape. Through that
approach, the entire set of universal parameters was accurately
derived in Sankhya.
The existence of the Universe and all phenomena is confirmed
by observation, detection, and measurement. The complete
detection process, by either human senses or instrumented
methods, depends entirely on vibrations for its transmission and
reception. All the human senses, including tactile responses, are
motivated only by vibrations and likewise, instrumented results
too are conditioned by the same. The key is to understand
repetitive oscillatory interactions of the elementary components
that cause vibrations. If it is strictly limited to the study of
oscillatory functions, then a purely intellectual effort should
enable man to construct a basic theory, right from the ground up
to its limiting boundary. Such a fundamental theory should
enable him to anticipate the entire spectrum of permutations,
combinations and its ramifications, that are possible in the
dynamic oscillatory state. With this understanding, he could
derive the limits, limitations and the conditions necessary for the
83
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
theory to operate as predicted. He could also identify the critical
turning points to be verified in reality, to confirm its theoretical
validity. All this is possible because only one parameter, namely
vibration, is to be studied analysed and understood. Above all, if
this subject was to be understood by everyone then it had to have
every supplementary subject or aid to comprehension, built into
it.
That is exactly what Maharishi Kapila did in evolving the
Sankhya principles, purely by intellectual means, using the
human mind as his theoretical and experimental laboratory. The
depth of his intellectual acumen can be gauged by his mode of
presentation. Since it was to be transmitted orally through vocal
statements (see note 4), by young and old through generations,
who may or may not have been capable of understanding its
technical purpose, two levels of meanings were woven into it.
The carefully chosen words had a general, static, everyday
meaning , applicable to humans, so that the temptation to give a
slant to ‘difficult-to-understand’ words was eliminated and a
metric poetic style encouraged the young to reproduce it
faithfully. Additionally, the coherence or unity of a thought
process was defined by the poetic Arya metre, like the full stop
at the end of a sentence. The hidden real hard core meaning
could be extracted by an intellectual and confirmatory Siddhi
process of meditation, indicated in Suthra 6. The critical
numerical verifiers of important theorems was presented in the
guise of an innocuous numerative style as an apparent aid to
memory. Every word, number, syllable and economic style of its
presentation has a meaning. The proof that the Maharishi
succeeded is confirmed by the fact that not only every important
constant in physics literally falls out on application of its
principles, but has provided an impeccable algorithm to identify
every unit of scientific value from the Substratum in the future.
The true significance of this work can be brought out more
forcefully by comparing a statement historically ascribed to an
ancient Greek intellectual, who after evolving the principle of
leverage, stated, that with a lever long enough and a place to
84
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
stand on, he would move the earth. Maharishi Kapila gave the
process of evolving the most powerful intellectual lever, the
Moolaprakriti, the dimensionless and scale invariant yardstick
that would allow any individual to reconstruct the Universe
intellectually through just 70 significant Suthras or holistic
theorems (see note 9). Authors of the “Concepts of particle
physics” ,Gottfried and Weisskopf have posed this excellently
thought out question         “Can some grand principle – some
wondrously elegant set of equations – encompass all of
physics ?” and explained what physics seeks is “ an axiomatic
basis of austere but compelling force which, when elegantly
formulated, leads inexorably to phenomenon that are complex
and that were previously inexplicable, or not even anticipated”
…… . There could not have been a better poser, for Sankhya
not only fulfils all the criteria sought above but goes one step
further, by providing such a numerically perfect answer, as
proof, that could be applied to any and every equation man could
formulate with reference to the Substratum. Sounding a
cautionary note, humanity in general and the specialist in
particular, seem to           prefer    complexity to simplicity,
romanticism to reality and the obscure to the obvious, all of
which may make difficult the acceptance of Sankhya for what it
really is and one can only hope that his innate mental flexibility
and inner wisdom is awakened enough to understand and accept
its factual clarity in expressing an extremely complex observable
phenomenal structure that offers the ultimate gift of nature,
abundant energy at maximal efficiency.
An important consequence of the Moolaprakriti yardstick is the
introduction of six important conceptual mathematical changes
(among many others) in current physics that will inexorably
compel intellectuals to accept the Sankhya concept of the
Substratum of space. Firstly, the holographic state of the
undetectable components of the Substratum can be
mathematically defined to the required precision for the first
time, like the periodic table in chemistry, between both the
central nuclear core & bounded limits. It can be presented as a
85
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
continuous spectrum or continuum, thereby introducing a radical
change in our scientific understanding of space. The
mathematical formulation, modelled on an algebraic power
series, permits even the nth level displacements to maintain the
coherent and self-similar interactive vibrations permanently in a
quiescent stationery state that acts as an absorber or energy sink.
The coherent, super-symmetric, super-conductive, quiescent
state is maintained at a precise interactive level by a super heavy
coherent blackhole Purusha mass equivalent to 1025 GEV or 41
million times heavier than the planck mass and is yet to be
identified in particle physics. It forms the immovable ground
state. Incidentally, it also provides an ideological solution to the
cosmological riddle of an open or closed Universe because of an
enormous store of mass energy in a “coherent potential” state.
The explicitly defined Sankhya view of the Substratum is that a
plenum of components form a base for manifesting phenomenon,
like a screen for projecting a movie or a coated television tube
that reflects the electronic radiation but with the added difference
that the internal state of the components function continuously in
a super-symmetric and super-active vibratory mode which when
disrupted beyond a precise level leads to a directional
displacement of oscillations as radiation. In simple words the
Secondly, it proves that the rate of transmission of “control
information indicating the state of vibratory stresses” , defined in
Sankhya, as transmigration of vibratory power by tunnelling
through the Substratum, rises to become “instantaneous” across
any conglomerate self contained unit, be it a galaxy or a nucleus,
thereby fulfilling the concept of the missing advanced potential
necessary to preserve the principle of causality. It means that
even a Galactic boundary functions in a ‘simultaneous’ mode as
a single entity with a centre of mass characteristics, due to
control of it’s inner coherent potential by a mere internal phase
shift in it’s coherent state. It has a cascading amplifying effect
like a pantograph arm and it’s diametrical distance acts like a
rigid rod due to an extremely high compressibility or rigidity
modulus caused by an axiomatic collapse function. It is the sum
86
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of all past interactions that provides the potential to act. The
rigidity is due to an extremely high super-positioning density of
vibrations built up by the continuing axiomatic interactive
resonant state over an eternity of cycles in a sea of components.
Scientists     like Mach, Planck, Maxwell,           Schwarzschild,
Chandrashekhar, Hawking and Sakharov & Einstein in
particular identified the need in principle for a type of metric
elasticity or deformation parameter in space and several
derivations exist under their respective names. The Sankhya
internal rigidity potential under the definition of Abhiman is an
extremely elegant axiomatic consequence of applying the self-
similar resonant interaction as a summated series in infinite cycle
duration. It means that every so called free geodesic of
approximately 200,000 light years in space, acts like a rigid rod
in which both the ends twist or rotate by the same amount
literally at the same time or instantly by the defined Ahankar
process. The allowable cycle time for a 360 degree twist is
within the range of a single Moolaprakriti cycle. The twist alters
the vector potentials along the entire length and is balanced by
local corrective action subject to the potential energy state
existing there. This factor explains the EPR and the Aharanov –
Bom anomalies but more spectacularly the cohesiveness of the
Galactic boundary.
No object or wave really moves with a translational velocity that
would violate the principles of special relativity but the
“instantaneous or simultaneous” change in the direction or phase
of interactive stresses causes transmigration of stress-phase-
angle at a phenomenal rate, which is obviously a new factor in
physics. Viewing the transmigration phenomenon objectively
and logically, there should not be any intellectual difficulty in
accepting it as it has been occurring in nature from time
immemorial, say in the form of sound wave and electrical-
magnetic wave transmissions with a velocity difference of
approximately million times, analogous to the difference in
photon and stress-phase-change transmigration. Hence a
disturbance that transmits both a sound and electromagnetic
87
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
wave independently through a medium, cannot be easily
identified as being related, by a later measurement, because of
the large velocity difference.
A long rigid rod will transmit to the other end, the same event at
different rates depending on whether it is a sound-wave , electro-
magnetic wave or a simply by a physical push. Consider a
mental experiment wherein the start of a train from a station 300
metres away is signalled electrically in a micro-second, by
sound in a second but a “very rigid rod” would transfer both
rotary and linear micro movements instantly and will be detected
before the other signals. When activity is coherent and
synchronised it acts as a rigid ensemble. This experiment
indicates both the electrical and sound vibrations are aspects
indicating the degree of “non-rigidity” of the rod or medium.
Sankhya proves that relative to all the vibratory signals man is or
can be aware of, the components of the Substratum form an
extremely rigid plenum that rises by 86 orders to reach a super-
positioning density level of 96 orders at the moment of a
colliding interaction between them.
The fact that a Galactic ensemble can remain together for
millions of years demands through logical rigour, the concept of
an internal physical connection, for axiomatic mathematics has
demolished once and for all the principle of action at a distance
or oscillatory activity without a medium. By the same token
space cannot maintain an integrated control over units greater
than a Galactic ensemble. While relativistic analysis gives all the
importance to sequential movement or “time-like” activity
within the light-cone, there is no evidence of any explicit method
of solving problems in “space-like” regions beyond identifying it
as such. The Abhiman / Ahankar factor indicates that distant
gravitational potential changes can be detected, only as a local
phase change, at an approximate phase related velocity between
the 4th. and 6th. power of light velocity, identified as
MohaThaama to AndhaThaama states covering 1018 modes of
stress-phase- changes and not as a wave in the classical sense.
This mode of action is dealt with in physics as entropy, but
88
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
statistical methods are needed to analyse in detail whereas self
similar Guna roles maps this region precisely.
Hence two distant space-like events are related by a signal
transmitted by the twist of a “rigid rod” and the rigidity factor
conditioned by the stress generated by the density of
phenomenon ( matter) in a locality and the maximum stress, is in
“flat” or Euclidean space. Such events would seem spontaneous
if the internal transmigrating cause is not known. This principle
highlights the possibility of detecting distant events, almost
instantly, through synchronous-amplification devices that can
detect a phase shift / change in the vector potential or
gravitational potential of the Substratum. Perpetual seismic
activity is a space-like phase related activity caused by other
stellar bodies. Apparently cerebral neural systems seem to have
this capability in the form of telepathy, clairvoyance and psycho-
kinesis, predicted by Sankhyan principles of Yoga and reliably
witnessed by scientific investigators, for example, like Puharich
of confirmed psychic feats performed by Uri Geller at the
Stanford Research Institute.
Thirdly, it proves that all radiated phenomenon, like photons of
light, must decay, which consequently removes the foundation
for the highly unpalatable “Big Bang” expanding universe
concept but at the same time provides a logical mathematical
explanation for the distance-proportional red-shift of spectral
lines that Hubble discovered. For that was primarily the cause of
it’s origin, despite being aware of the fact that this anomaly did
not exist within a Galaxy.           Since Sankhya specifically
recommends integer mathematics as the correct path to
understanding phenomenon, the relativistic equations of motion
along a geodesic, when transformed through integer
mathematical procedures, show that it is a loci of a line of
components with a nett zero differential internal-stress-energy-
tensor value. It further demonstrates through algebraic
mathematics that the infinitesimal displacement identifying the
geodesic, itself has a coherent potential that can be expressed in
a self-similar and perpetually coherent Moolaprakriti power
89
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
series by a dimensionless variable, upto infinite levels, which
seems to be new to physics.
The gravitational red-shift confirms this concept, which demands
the distance proportional behaviour and by the same token it
leads to the inexorable conclusion that any cupful of energy
called a quanta must wear itself out at some finite distance in a
free field. A photon is an accelerated wave packet that has
broken out of the boundary of the phase synchronised coherent
state due to an obstruction that has disrupted the symmetric
internal oscillations. Spatial transmigration of stress like an
electrical signal, precedes the photon, similar to a sound wave, to
tell it when to stop. The photon mass is a Moolaprakriti, excited
by a structured ensemble of seven levels of randomly superposed
vibrations that wagon-hops along the ‘geodesic’ components,
dropping a count per hop, which allows the first ensemble to last
approximately 60 light years. The internal stress level of log 66
axiomatic value dissipates itself at a radius of log 22, being the
volume1/3 proportion of a plane wave..
 Fourthly, in a holographic model there is no ideological division
of mass and energy, hence even the lightest “particle” must
possess the quality of synchronous, centred vibrations or “mass,”
thereby clarifying it’s structure. Superpositioned vibrations act as
a unit on a supporting base, thereby introducing the concept of
inertia in a field. Because of this dichotomy, Einstein was
compelled to postulate the principle of Equivalence to explain
the seemingly magical quality of mass and force maintaining a
constant relationship in a the gravitational field. In a holographic
model all manifested “particles“, are only superpositioned sets
of vibrations in the undetectable Purusha components in the
Substratum. Hence all particles of any “mass” must “move” at
the same rate like different sized objects move together at the
same rate on an escalator and each of its step or landing
signifying a different state.
Fifthly, the “coherent and unmanifest massive state” of the
dynamic Substratum provides the base for absorbing radiation
(decay) through the collapse function that maintains the rigidity
90
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of the field, resulting in the principle of spontaneous &
continuous creation. The axiomatic collapse function, being a
continuous and constant phenomenon, depicting the
simultaneous-sum of all pevious interactions, caused by any
obstruction to a resonant state, enables the Substratum to
maintain the coherent super-symmetric state with an abundant
reservoir of synchronous mass- energy in an unmanifest or
hidden state along any two synchronised axis. The logic is based
on the fact that higher vibratory states will always be reduced to
the lower state it is in contact with, by equalising, akin to a
thermal equilibrium process.
Lastly but of significant importance, the large hidden spectrum
of high “mass / energy” phenomenon can be extracted when the
perfectly balanced, coherent and super symmetric state of the
Substratum is disrupted by high frequency asynchronous
triggering. Physical evidence of this process already exists in the
form of the enigmatic cosmic ray phenomenon triggered
spontaneously by a seemingly random collapse function. Ball-
streak-lightening and Polar Auroras are another example. The
mechanism of Hawking’s super-radiance phenomenon, being an
exact replica of the photon spectrum at the blackhole boundary,
gives additional confirmation. Hawking’s blackhole temperature
value is derived through Sankhyan logic with extreme precision.
The Sankhya mathematics shows that there is a continuous,
constant and simultaneous interactions active in 1018 parallel
modes, that makes the Substratum the most active foundation of
the Universe and yet it is not detectable! It opens the door to a
new system of environmentally safe, cold and synchronous
conversion of large amounts of field energy into either
mechanical or electrical work output . See Section ‘Powerhouse
of theUniverse’ and the ‘Self Charging Battery’ for details.
  It is unlike nuclear processes that uses the principle of
converting mass potential into kinetic energy through a change
in phase or state, which is similar to a fossil fuel cycle that
needs a periodic conversion set-up. It requires a natural or
manmade procedure to cycle the input fuel so that it is capable of
91
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
sustaining a radioactive interaction. In space the stress energy
vector potential is at an astounding 1035 Newton’s in relative
terms. As an illustrative example, the atmospheric air pressure of
105 Newton’s responds with a massive thunderous sound wave
lasting several seconds to a near instantaneous lightening
trigger. It is indeed an irony of fate that India, the country that
revered and preserved this Vedic knowledge intact, has been
competing as assiduously as other nations in searching for a
viable energy alternative, while it had the key in its keeping, in
the form of an ancient heritage.
Many centuries ago Count Magdeburg evacuated air from two
very large metal hemispheres placed together and when a
number of horses could not pull them apart, he let in air to allow
the containers to separate on their own. This experiment was
necessary to prove to the scientific community of that period that
pressure (force) and vacuum (suction) were not two separate and
opposite forces but was due to a single force : the pressure of the
dynamic atmospheric air. Since they believed that human lungs
would be crushed in an environment in which air exerted a
pressure of 14.7 lbs. / sq.in or 10,000 Newton’s / sq.M.; they had
to be shocked into accepting this currently acknowledged
common fact by a dramatic experiment.
The logical lesson from it was profound. The observed force due
to a vacuum was only due to the pressure or state of activity of
some thing in it namely invisible air, which had inherent
potential and kinetic qualities. Sankhyan logic indicates that our
current understanding of the basic cause of phenomenon is
precisely at the same crossroads and a Magdeburg type of
experiment is vital today to establish the true structure of space
but unfortunately the size of the sphere needed would turn out
to be of sub-atomic dimensions!
 Hence the Sankhyan intellectual approach to theorising about
space was well founded for science had learnt through the
Michelson Morley experiments that qualities of the “vacuum of
space” were beyond experimental observation. All the current
impressive developments in science stands for a horizontal
92
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
surface thrust but the discovery of new phenomenon in
“thousands” gives a misleading impression of progress in
depth. Success in a vertical approach (depth) would immediately
exposes the current knowledge as belonging to one deck whereas
Sankhya proves that seven such decks are needed to complete
just one scale level and a cycle covers 7 x 10 scale levels ! That
is one magnificent stretch of phenomenon, by any stretch of
imagination, be it mathematical or magical! The concept of a
dimensionless theory would be intellectually acceptible if all
phenomenon were to be strictly presented as a relational
parameter. In fact all numbers can be represented as ratios by
putting 1 in the denominator without affecting current
mathematical parameters. While 1 at higher index levels remain
unusable, any parameter set as an equivalent ratio would have
meaning.




93
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                    Special System Of Proof

The Sankhyan holistic intellectual approach, using rigorous logic
as a tool, led to evolving realistic principles in areas beyond
observable confirmation like the Substratum of phenomenon.
Sankhya endorses the view that mathematics, like any language,
is only a structured code and does not automatically ensure the
maintenance of logical rigor. Realism demanded the acceptance
of the axiom “one cannot detect Nothing”. Having established
that in reality, only a change in “Something” can be detected,
the basics of a dynamic fundamental state was evolved by a
system of mathematics that suited it’s “starting“ status. Dynamic
behaviour at the basic level had to be defined in a simplified but
definitive or axiomatic way to eliminate errors of logic, yet it had
to be applicable to non-dynamic or static states as well. Similarly
the mathematical evolutionary base had to be non-controversial
for all times in the future, hence only simple, unambiguous and
self-evident axioms, that were outside the boundaries of
postulates,       preferences,      dimensionality,       language,
interpretations, subjects, disciplines, techniques, culture and
civilisation, could be chosen.
In a Universe where every observable is always in a state of
change it was absolutely essential to lay the foundation on some
constant and predictably changing process whose operating
parameters could form the firm, axiomatic, base for
mathematical logic. Having established that only a change could
be verified, it became essential to develop an axiomatic principle
of constancy of change, under fundamental conditions, as a
natural course, that would form the dynamic yardstick of logic.
 Even more important was the need to find a mathematical logic
to sustain the principle of change as a permanent feature and
augment it with a constant incremental ratio forming an infinite
series, that prevented the activity from dying out. Further, the
holistic approach to any theoretical evolution demanded that it
must derive its own proof from its internal logic and also identify
and declare beforehand at what point the proving sequence was
94
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
complete or indicate the proof that it has been proved. Applying
a modern flow chart concept, any unitary yardstick of logic
placed in a minimal sequence of six equations of proof would
close the loop in a circular mode and subsequent placements
would only repeat the process already covered. Further, the six
logical yardsticks placed in a hexagonal form, automatically
connected every vertex to the centre by the same unit of logic
thereby increasing the six sequential connections to 12, the
additional 6 being simultaneous; forming a hexagonal ring with
six spokes. This is a concept of positive simultaneous
affirmation or the principle of Siddhi (analysis of logical stream
of information in a simultaneous mode) in Sanskrit, that an
individual can apply to himself to know that his conclusions are
correct within the framework of the chosen logic. Perfection in
real time control of a functioning system is ensured by the
inclusion of redundant or parallel units operating simultaneously
but it is a negative use of the foregoing principle, for it
moronically repeats the same process and is a trade off obtained
by sacrificing efficiency for higher reliability. However, in
simultaneous affirmation, which in effect is an incremental form
of redundancy, the results of the previous analysis are the inputs
to the next sequence that effectively changes the scale of the
repetitive process.
In effect it improves the confirmatory process by the power and
is therefore highly efficient in exposing deviations as a value
magnified by the power. There are similar parallel processes in
nature that improves performance many times over by creating a
condition called negative resistance that produces an effective
avalanche which leads to resonant coherent states like the
phenomenon of superconductivity, identified as the Moha-
Mahamoha-AndhaThaama Thaamasic . Sankhya regions. The
implications of such a proving process is mind boggling. As each
sequence is completed, the investigator finds he has no freedom
to deviate from his starting logic but is conditioned by the strict
requirement that the next sequence he is yet to formulate, must
not only tie up through the same logic, forming a precise valued
95
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
central link, but above all it must lead him back to his starting
premise within the remaining order of power sequence. One is
lead to wonder if any modern investigator would accept such a
precondition. Sankhya has such a proof based on the principle of
“Nyaya”. The proof of the correctness of Sankhya logic is
established internally on the same principle by following the
self-confirming Siddhi process and is explained in some detail
here to show the logical refinement involved in proving an
extraordinary thesis beyond all doubt. A logical yardstick L ,
signifying the stable and reliable value of a rate of change is laid
out as a hexagonal ring of six units but progressively its power
index is raised by one so that it forms a sequence from L 1 to L6.
The six L units form the spokes that act simultaneously to
provide the common value at the centre as shown.




              Fig: The Closed Substratum Of Space
96
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The numerical value of derivations following the logical order
indicated in the diagram must all be equated to the value at the
central point, absolutely accurately. The relevant values of L and
C derived in the appropriate sections provide the extraordinary
proof that the phenomenon is stable, unified, perpetual and
unmanifest or perfectly conserved. My is the smallest and
elemental unit-period of activity and L is the maximum number
of such interaction or counts per unit cyclic period.
The coherent Purusha state or blackhole of maximum mass or
inertia or delay or ‘ static’ state per cycle is Kx = My ( L6 ) . The
next state of increase in activity equals the Planck Mass
equivalent of Mahad Prakriti state of Mps = My ( L 5 )/(7+1/7).
Thirdly, the state of increase in activity equals the transition
activity or the Stress transmigration ratio of 7 states St = My ( L4
). Fourthly, the stable, neutral and fundamental nuclear state of
Prakrithi or the Neutron as PM = My (L3)/Px. Here the
interlocked Mahad Vikrithi or acclerative state of the Electron as
Me also equals the same My (L 3)/Px. Fifthly the fundamental
particulate state of the Vikrithi or Neutrino as Ne = My (L2) (2
π/7)2. Sixthly, the fundamental fraction of a time-cycle of
simultaneity when the difference between the static and dynamic
state is nil as Tcy = My (L)/7 and equals the Planck time in
quantum theory.
 A cycle in Sankhya is defined through logic as 10 counts. There
are three phases of an interaction and two interfaces where the
change of phase occurs totaling five in one direction. Another 5
similar phases in the opposite reaction totlas a sequence of ten
interactive events in a cycle. The product of such an interaction
is 10 x 10 = 100 and the sequence to equalise it is 50 + 50 = 100
as a resonant sequential interactive reaction, for any balanced
oscillation must cover equal distance in equal times in both
directions. It means that 50 /100 = 2 forms a stable oscillatory
cycle. Any deviation cannot be less than one count or the ratio of
a one count deviation in the total cycle will be as shown ; 50 /
(50 -1) = 50 / 49. In order to ensure that an oscillatory state

97
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
continues, L6 must reduce to L within one count or a cycle ratio
50 / 49 or

1+(2/100)1+(2/100)2+(2/100)3+((2/100)infinity = 1.020408163

Then L to L6 must all equalise in 50 / (50 –1) = 50 / 49 cycles
to maintain the resonant state. The astronomical rate of power
radiation needed to sustain the ratio L6 / (1.020408 –1) equals
the value derived in physics is 3.3e+52. Further it will be shown
that there are still higher rates at smaller cyclic intervals which
will be new to physics. If producing
 the conditions to suit the above is enough of a challenge it is still
inadequate to produce a holographic or dynamically self starting
condition. It leads eventually to a stationery or a permanently
unmanifest dynamic condition. The series above is exactly equal
to 50/49 of a cycle in infinite interactions. The unit 1 is likewise
integer factorised to produce a complex simultaneous series
( shown in the mathematical section) to represent the six Ls.
With these predetermined and internally derived proving tools
the, the Substratum described as “Aikaantha-Aathyantha-Atho-
Abhavat” in Sanskrit, is proved to exist permanently beyond a
doubt. The critical constants in the special and general theory of
relativity are confirmed through the axioms developed in
Sankhya and highlights the error that has led to conceptualising
space in unreal terms. As shown later in the relevant Suthras,
each of the 6 vertices is identified with a precise valued constant
like the Moolaprakriti at centre, the constant rate of change L,
the Satwic Bhava or charge at L2, the Rajasic Linga/Bhava or
electro-magnetic / lepton / boson / hadron region at L3 , the
Bhava Moha Thaama or baryon region at L4 , the Linga
Mahamoha Thaama or quark region at L5 , the Andha Thaama or
the Higgs or Planck mass region at L6 and the Purusha /
Abhiman core or blackhole region at L7 , with a mass around
1025 GEV. The Ahankar tunnelling region, new to physics, from
L7 to L is the vertical potential drop that is balanced by a single
Moolaprakriti with an uncertainty of 50/49 of the cycle in
98
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
infinite time sequence as shown by the series above. Each spoke
has the corresponding power index signifying the level or rate of
transmigration or transmission of vibratory stress within the
Substratum. The maximum differential or relative rate is L6 and
the entire simultaneous region of six L units, forms the coherent,
synchronised, resonant, super-symmetric, superconductive,
superposed, super dense, simultaneously active, balanced,
dynamic, but unmanifest or undetectable state because the
interactions are balanced internally. The proof hinges on the
sequential factor 50/49, supported by an even more exotic and
complex time constant series, shown later, defining the
simultaneous L tunneling states by a single self-similar
numerical value raised to any power index level . In the
mathematical explanations, it will be shown that all the
parameters mentioned above are dimensionless counts
numerically equal to values accepted in current physics. Hence
it is not surprising that, Maharishi Kapila’s Sankhyakarika is
held in high esteem and is specifically mentioned in the
Bhagavad Gita, which explains, without mathematics, the
functioning of the holographic field in the Substratum, from
chapters 13 to 18. It is pertinent to mention here that Einstein
(see note 7) raises this very question that the number of
equations of proof required to define distances between n points
of Euclidean or flat space is (((n2 – n) /2 ) –3n), which gives a
null or negative result with the value of n = 7 or less. Hence 6
has to be added to this equation to give meaningful results. As
shown, the concept of simultaneous affirmation has confirmed
that 6 are not only more than enough but completing even these
literally becomes a Herculean task. But in Sankhya (see note 10)
this task is made into a mere mental counting procedure. Why ?.
So that every human being can understand the universal process.
It is their right to know and understand a truly democratic
process of universal manifestation, if they so desire. It also
implies that, with a near universal spread of this knowledge, it
must be used with reverence and caution and if misused there is
the danger of a similar retaliation by others with similar
99
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
knowledge. Hence the epitome of Sankhyan thought is that real
knowledge leads to total freedom of action, with a real respect
for democratic procedures as truth can act as a double-edged
sword.
As an example of Sankhya logic and clarity of thought, the
development of a simple generic equation for any interaction in
the Substratum is shown below. Sankhya does not segregate
phenomenon into domains of force. Logically it cannot because
only vibrations are involved and the difference in interactive
potential can vary from a single count to the sixth power of L
within a cycle. Any volume can be described by length cubed or
L3 and if L = V x T (Velocity into time) then V3 x T3 will be the
new definition of that quantity M = L3 whose volumetric form is
V3 and density is T3 . Again, using a dynamic description, R can
be defined as a rate of change C into time interval T. Then, in a
state of freedom to interact, two sets of polarised factors present
themselves for manipulation , keeping N at unity :
R3 = ( C x T2 ) x ( C2 x T ) = Volumetric form
R3 = ( C x superposed interval T2) x ( C2 x interval T)
Consequently M = R3 x N3 = C3 x T3 x N3 . While time T can be
measured and has a meaning, the square or cube of time T, must
be eliminated as it cannot form a detectable parameter. Re-
writing that equation with C x T = R as a measurable parameter
then the mass M = R x C2 x T2 x N3 . Since the dimensionless
ratios, density as N cubed and time as T squared, cannot be
measured directly, its product can be written as the constant G
in an equation where G = T2 x N3 . C can be measured along any
axis so the simultaneous combinations of C along all 3 axis is
presented as the cube of C. Rewriting:
M= R x C2 x (T2 x N3 ) = R x C2 x G = R2 x (C / T) x G = T x C3
xG
Or M /G = R x C2 = R2 x (C / T) = T x C3 = (R x C2 = M x
( 1/G)
Students of physics will recognise the last as a dimensionless
harmonic equation, equivalent to the well known Newtonian
gravitational expression (Newtonian gravity constant is Gn)
100
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
(R v2 = Gn M) or v = √{ (Gn M) / R }
if the gravity constant Gn is taken as the reciprocal of G and v as
C. Sankhya shows that the constant G hides a very large range
of simultaneous interactions and the state of the Substratum is
shown below. Surprisingly there are no direct equivalent terms
in current physics defining the 4 phases within the gravity
constant domain and therefore the highly specific Sanskrit term
is given instead.
Raja Interactive Oscillatory Cycle G = Constant
Class of activity       Coherent state        Dynamic state
Substratum state        Yuga                  Krama
External                Abhiman               Ahankar
Internal                Linga                 Bhava
The oscillatory rate C remains stable as it is caused by the very
first level of increment from one to two as an axiomatic
principle. The constancy of C provides the stable ground level
that maintains the variable parameters in a proportional and
controlled state with reference to it. The foregoing equations can
be transposed as follows:
M = R x C2 x G = R2 x (C / T) x G = T x C3 x G and rewriting
T x C3 = M / (T2 x N3 ) = (M / G) = L3 when T = 1
While this equation expresses the equality of the change on the
left side the right side L3 must be kept constant as it represents
the absolute reality, so the constancy is maintained by the hidden
parameters in G. In mathematical terms this is a sterile equation
because if the right side must not be changed and C is stable then
T cannot change. But it is not so. C is the axiomatic rate of
vibration in any direction and the total in all three directions is C3
in a cycle but there is nothing to prevent it synchronising or
vibrating simultaneously in step or in phase in all directions,
along all 3 axis, at the same rate of C. As an example, if 10
people clapped their hands in a sequence, the 10 events could be
counted but if all of them did so simultaneously, at the same
instant, then only one event would be registered but with an
identifiable difference that the latter would be louder, because

101
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the energy content of 9 hidden claps are emitted at once. Hence,
when the vibrations along 3 axis synchronise in phase,
immediately one understands that an extraordinary event has
occurred. The count of C3 has reduced by synchronising to C
along all 3 axis and time T has increased to T x C 2 so that the
right side remains unchanged (though G internally exchanges to
equalise by tunneling) and this location now vibrates in the
breathing mode and has acquired the quality of mass or
synchronous behaviour that amplifies activity. When an
unsynchronised rate as high as C3 drops or collapses to a
simultaneous state of C then the effort to equalise will create a
transmigration of higher rates of vibrations towards the C state
(like in attaining thermal equilibrium) but it has now to be in the
sequentially extended time T x C2 (or equivalently the coherent
potential has increased) therefore this state of inward drift
remains for a long time. In fact it becomes eternal as shown in
Sankhya Suthra 68. The change by increase in measurable count
as (T x Cn ) in the Substratum by mere synchronisation of 2 or 3
axis is shown below:
1. t x c3 = m / (t2 x n3 ) = (m / g.) .
non synchronised state - all 3 axis in free state.
2. (t x c ) x c2 = m / ((t2 x c ) x n3 / c) = (m / g).
any two axis synchronised.
3. (t x c2 ) x c = m / (((t2 x c2 ) x n3 / c2 ) = (m / g.).
Here all three axis are synchronised in the coherent breathing
mode and energy stored as mass by the absorbed value of C2 . the
c2 factor in g (t2 x n3) has tunnelled from observable density n3
to the hidden superposed domain of time t2 as (t2 x c2 ) x n3 / c2 .
It is easy to see this transfer in principle but experimentally it can
be only detected as a change in the mass / energy relationship
with a corresponding change in the coupling or bonding mass /
energy ratio. Only an intellectual theoretical analysis will expose
the tunnelling aspect.
The important factor to understand is that though all the
numerical values remain constant , the mere process of
synchronisation leading to coherence brings about a
102
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
commutation of adjoining factors to produce a spectrum of
changed states. The definition of when two sets of vibrations
synchronise perfectly is derived through the principle of self
similar interaction. The synchronisation point has two well
defined constraints. Cyclic time period and the distance in which
the same number of vibrations per cycle must be matched
precisly, should be derivable as an axiomatic state. Application
of the self similar factor x = 0.618034 ensures that the above
state is axiomatically sustained and these are derived and proved
in their respective Suthras.
The key to this functional behaviour is the equation that balanced
incremental or additive time factors. It is matched to the
simultneous or ‘instant’ incremental ratio and is equal always.
That is 1+x = 1/x or (1+x) n = (1/x)n. Regardless of how the
vibrations per cycle change, the state of synchronous behaviour
as a coherent single unit will be maintained. Hence any cubic,
spherical or unit entity can be described in detail, to any levels of
accuracy, of its internal intercative behaviour that maintains the
unified form or structure. Therefore any nuclear entity, be it the
sun or the nucleon, can be mapped into zones of identifiable
functional characteristics. The numerical values can be extracted
by defining one single parameter that has relevance. Sankhya
Sutras define a limit on the previous, past or original state as
being cubed. Time cubed cannot be measured but a cubic
dynamic state must contain velocity cubed into time squared
units in a cyclic time period, both of which are measurable.
Through this concept one can derive the time element of a field
as the cube root of a detectable value N and it in turn becomes
the field element of N cubed states.
All this can happen within the Substratum only because
vibrations transmigrate through a self-similar law of interaction
along the unmanifest components. The change in the self-similar
coherent state involves the mere shifting or sliding of the power
index in a Pascal triangle of indexed constants terminating at
infinity. at has occurred can be explained in many ways. It is the
ubiquitous singularity, the gravitational collapse, the black hole,
103
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the coherent and kinetic potential interactive gradient, the
asymptotic freedom state of quarks, the proton electron
boundary unit configuration , the spectrum of electromagnetic
phenomenon, the molecular ensemble, the galactic stellar
planetary combination, and so on endlessly.
Sankhya describes it picturesquely in Suthra 21 as the
association between one who is blind and the other a lame one
trying to get out of a deep hole. The integer mathematics
formulation shows, without a shadow of doubt that the build up
of a coherent state, labelled as a collapse, is the most natural
phenomenon in a holographic mode. Any normally self resonant
activity will collapse to a coherent state if obstructed.
Thus gravity is born, the root of all forces but it changes it colour
during its climb to the boundary in eternal time without changing
M but only its internal state of the constituents of G. It can occur
anywhere and every where, at any place , at any time, but only
within the Substratum that functions in a holographic way. In
fact it is happening all the time as the quantum fluctuations in the
vacuum of space. The change from C3 to C2 and C by
synchronising of the axis, provides the three interactive
categories of hadronic, bosonic to photonic and leptonic states
with similar level-wise characteristics. The largest conglomerate
group being a Galaxy to the smallest Moolaprakriti is established
as a continuum and all function by the same formulation. All
interactive exchanges are described by the same expression
regardless of size or cyclic period. The manifested objects are
finite and mathematically definable but the Substratum and its
duration are beyond any definition because it is an absolute and
fundamental state, only with reference to which the entire
process of manifestation has meaning.
The answer to the most enigmatic question ‘What is gravity’,
being sought so assiduosly by researchers, is provided by
Sankhya logic. It is caused by a missing interactive count and the
count is missed because it synchronises with an adjacent
interactive count. A movement of an interactive location (seen as
a force) is caused when an equal and opposite reactive
104
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
interactive state does not arrive at the same point at every cycle
of interaction. In real terms the foregoing state is the cause of
any movement and becomes a force when a number of units act
simultaneously to destroy the balance that two equal interactive
states maintain.
The enigma of gravity being a onesided movement or force is
explained by the fact that when a large number of interactive
states act simultaneously and syncronously a proportionat
number of reactive counts to act simultaneously, with the result a
gap in the interactive cycle is created. The gap in interactive
response creates an inward or “attractive forc”. The phenomenon
of inward acceleration is to be seen as spheres or rings of
simultaneous interactive states moving towards a ‘mass’ because
the reactive response has failed to arrive in time to maintain the
balanced location. The aggregative units of interactive states
represent a movement of stresses.
The substratum is a continuum but detection takes place only at
nodal positions as only integer counts mark the end of the
interactive process. Inbetween nodes two parameters will
identify any state. There is no uncertainty in the substratum for
every interactive event is due to specific cause and locations are
bound by laws of cubuc resonance. The most important fact is
nothing moves in the substratum but only stresses transmigrate
as vibratory ensembles. The solidity is established when the rate
of compressive modes exceed c1+x counts per cycle or a
femtosecond . The field becomes continuos and simltaneous
transmision of counts increase wavelength. Lower count rate or
longwavelength regions act as absorber states. Summarising the
above one gets the value of a maximum charge when a (c 1+x)
synchronised count along two axis splits to lose synchrony and
becomes (c1+x)2 count value as a quantum of charge in motion.
Reversing this action by combinng (c1+x)2 to synchronise exactly
in phase along two axis makes c1+x vanish and only so that mass
value of c2 appears as a hidden count because (cx)2 being a
coherent stress count increase during an interaction it escapes
detection but turns up as the reciprocal of the gravitation
105
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
constant in space to restore an equation with a missing mass
value. In other words both mass and charge are momentary or
transitary count increases as stress during an interaction and
equates the coherent ‘restful’ state to G as the gravitation
constant and quantifies the accelerative increase in stress during
an externalised interaction as a charge with a value of E.




106
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                        The Missing Count

Sankhya methodically identified all the possible logical reasons
for detection and non-detection of events in a dynamic or
changing environment (Suthras 5 to 10) and arrived at an
important conclusion that in a dynamic system, synchronisation
or simultaneous actions ( among many other reasons) hid events
and made them undetectable yet the hidden events were
accountable. Recall the simultaneous claps episode mentioned
earlier. (A similar static analogy would be to view from the top 4
cubes stacked vertically along the y axis and next to it another 4
cubes laid in a horizontal sequence along the x axis.) From a
standpoint of correct understanding, the two types of events were
identical in totality (10 claps from 10 people), but one had a
unitary sequence or Bhava kinetic phase that was time dependant
(the cubes along x axis) and the other was simultaneous but
number dependant Linga potential phase (the cubes stacked
vertical).
Hence a critical observer could arrive at a correct conclusion by
measuring, analysing and accounting for the total event, using
the three aspects of sequential, simultaneous and an intermediate
transition phase that could be a mixture of the two. The concept
of detecting simultaneous activity at the basic level was clarified
by using integer mathematical procedures. To illustrate, the
number of units or objects in equal lengths in the x and y axis (at
right angles to each other) cannot be the same, for the item at the
intersecting zero position is common to both rows. If sixteen
cubes were placed to form a square, 4 would form the base and
three rows of 4 cubes each, placed above it would complete the
task. Mathematical generalisation results in expressing it as the
product of 4 x 4 = 16, giving an erroneous impression that both
length and height have the same number of cubes. Occupancy
wise yes but identity wise no, because the first cube in the base
has been counted again in the vertical length. Since only the state
of the cube is cognisable a grave error has crept in by recounting
the first one. To clarify, if the horizontal row represented activity
107
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
proceeding leftward, then if the vertical column stood for an
upward move, the first cube shared both these characteristics.
Imagine two persons taking a census of two rows of houses on
two streets at right angles to each other with one house common
to both streets at the junction. Unless they are aware of this
common house it is likely to be counted in by both persons. The
nature of the error is in the simultaneous representation on one
cube, for the sequential counts along both the vertical and
horizontal directions tally.



                                               8 counts




        Unsynchronised along all 3 axis. Vikrithi



                                                2 counts




      Synchronised counts hide 6 counts. Prakrithi.


108
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                 Fig: Concept Of Vanishing Counts
The error was in accounting for the potential phase. It must be
realised that in a stack of 4 cubes (two on two) the gradient of
change is one by two and not two by two as would be presented
in a static framework. Sankhya shows that this potential
difference amounts to 50 percent of the total and added to the
fact that the two axis, in any interaction do not present equal
units in equal times, keeps the state of the substratum dynamic at
all times. There, due to the shared functioning of the central cube
in all three directions, vibrations can never synchronise or attain
a state of rest, internally, at the basic nodal level. The
instantaneous activity level at this node called Andhatamisrah or
“darkest division of hell”, has a coherent mass equivalent of 10 25
GEV. Moreover, as there is no limit to the number of vibrations
that can superpose on a component of space, any such error can
throw an equation totally out of balance.
Since only a change in oscillations are detectable, there is a
caveat in differentiating units or conglomerate groups. Even if
there are many objects, if all them present the same count rate,
the observer has no way of identifying the individual units due to
the camouflaging effect or zero contrast status. The problem is
exacerbated when accounting for time. Timing is count
dependant. Counting 10 interactions in a cycle is accountable.
The ratio of 1/10 of cycle time into 10 cycles is balanced. But if
each of the ten counts hid 10 more counts as exactly syncronised
actions, the process of accounting for time hides a serious error.
The 100 counts received as ten counts/ per cycle indicates that
that each count takes 1/100 of cycle but that assumption would
be highly inaccurate. For it hides the fact that between two
counts there was a clear interval of 1/10 of a cycle. The former
assumption indicates a crowded sequence of interactive events
whereas the events were separated by inactive intervals. This
error in derivation of time has given an erroneous impression of
the smallest time interval. The Plancktime does not exist nor can
it exist because the smallest interval in time is the Compton
interval or 1/(5e+13) of a cycle or second When all three axis
109
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
synchronise then the cube of ( 1/5e+13)3 = 1/1.25e+41 is shown
as the Planckian interval. But that does not exist for the nuclear
diameter is the smallest and detectable dimension which allows
an interval of only ( k-1)/(5e+13) as the discriminatable unit.

Analysing the information mathematically from the source that
sent 10 simultaneous counts with each detectable count will
expose the interval as 1/100. But observation or measurement
will indicate the blank periods between counts as being one
tenth. The counts have vanished but the density remains. Two
factors here help absorption of counts. Ten counts will be
moving towards 1 count interval and the density being 10 times
the time of reaction too will be reduced proportionately. Hence
the higher counts can transmigrate to the low count region easily.
Hence space is an absorber of counts.
Two objects with two different rates cannot stay adjacent to each
other unless there is a common or equilibrium rate at this
junction. Similarly higher rates of vibrations will modulate the
lower rate and create numerable median or harmonic states or the
higher rates will move towards the lower one. Therefore an
axiomatic ground state must be identified as the normal
background to relate all phenomenon in a meaningful way. The
first component can be differentiated from another only by the
difference in its count rate. A count of one (or a set) can be
recognised only against the next sequence of 2, forming a total of
3. Three cubes can be placed in the x and y axis forming equal
lengths but the 1 and 2 difference can be created only by viewing
it as a right triangle with a base of 2 and a relative incremental
height of 1 forming a hypotenuse of value √5.




The fundamental nature of this representation is understood by
seeing that if all three cubes are at the same level or in a line the
110
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
count rate does not change and can only be one as the height or
potential is      same but the simultaneous occupancy or
superpositioning density has increased.
Within the instant or cycle this ratio must be treated
logarithmically. The variation from a count rate of 1 to 2 is the
very first change possible and all rules of interaction must begin
from this axiomatic base. Sankhya logic shows that if this 1 to 2
oscillatory ratio of change is maintained, a coherent or stationary
interactive relationship is sustained. If the ratio reduces, the
oscillatory interactions superpose showing compressive or
aggregative qualities; if otherwise separation takes place,
exhibiting movement and expansion. The logic of the entire
range of phenomenon in the substratum has been constructed
from this dynamic base as an unbroken stretch of complex
numerical constants forming a continuum.
Accountable three dimensional space could be described
logically, symmetrically and economically, only by a cube and
the concept of accountability demanded that the fundamental
unit retain this continuity at the elemental level. Hence the
infinitesimal, point-like unit could not be conceived of as
anything other than a cube. It becomes an axiom if it is
understood that any other shape requires a derived coefficient to
equate it to a cube. Therefore, there is no escape from the
unequivocal conclusion that if any section of real space is to be
accounted for mathematically, even for an instant, by the
ultimate elemental       unit, be it    the point, infinitesimal,
component, particle or whatever, only the cube perfectly
satisfies the prime condition required for the title of elementarity
meaning that it cannot be any thing other than a single category.
(Any gaps between shapes other than cubes must be justified by
another quality, bringing in its wake constants of
dimensionality.) If it is realised the concept of a point in
geometry and the infinitesimal in calculus, hides this logic, then
it would at once be evident that both could hide an entire
universe of vibratory phenomenon, because an oscillation is not
a “thing” but only the “activity count on or in a thing” and if all
111
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the vibrations act in unison it is impossible to detect the
occupation numbers by direct measurement. From the foregoing
it becomes amply clear that the current conceptual base of the
entire mathematical structure cannot be meaningfully applied to
the hidden simultaneous, coherent, symmetric, dynamic and
unmanifest nature of a holographic model of space not because
the formulations are defective; it is far from that. In fact logically
the current spectrum of mathematics is perfect in the extreme but
it can apply only to detectable phenomenon that has a sequential
logic, velocity characteristics with at least an instant of the
human fiction called clock time. It is well known that the
detectable dynamic nature of oscillatory vector, scalar and spinor
fields, including the electro-magnetic spectrum, disappear or
vanish in the so called “stationery” states. To quote a significant
statement from Einstein’s book “The Meaning Of Relativity” in
explaining conservative qualities of the field he states “It is
interesting that according to the equations ( energy conservation
equations) the density of the energy currents ( a1, a2, a3 ) as well
as the energy density (a4) vanish for a field that is independent
of x4 (=time/velocity co-ordinate) . From this one can conclude
that according to this theory a stationery field free from
singularities can never represent a mass different from zero.” In
the Sankhya mathematical section it will be shown to the
contrary that only the stationery field can have the maximum
mass in the form of a coherent potential. ( Lp 2 x Dp) for the
insignificant point in the field is indeed a singularity represented
by the elemental cube, the Purusha. This caveat had been
precipitated in physics by the failure of the Michelson Morley
experiments to detect space as a substantial medium, which
drove the relativistic ideology to adopt the notion of a field
devoid of substance but endowed with compensatory features
labelled as      “geometro-dynamics” using the concepts of
Reimann, Gauss and Euclid, leading to an abstract form of tensor
mathematics. The dependence on an independent field concept
brought in problems of singularities that needed arbitrary
postulation of boundary conditions that robbed the theory of the
112
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
‘perfect’ status. The reality of the quantum phenomenon did not
tie up with the field mathematics and drove the wedge deeper
and away from the goal of unification. Logically space seemed
and behaved as a continuum or plenum but the quantum
phenomenon posed the need to introduce a mathematical volte-
face towards a purely algebraic theory which did not seem to
exist. In this background, the Sankhyan concepts do give a
deeper understanding, to solve the type of problems outlined
above, by the physics community.
Maharishi Kapila has emphasised the dual nature of the
intellectual analytical process and Suthra 5 defines the entire
procedure, exactly as what must have been followed by all the
intellectual stalwarts in recent times like Newton, Maxwell,
Gauss, Reimann, Planck, Einstein, Bose, Hawkins, Penrose and
many others. It is based on an open ended sequential analytical
process, commonly referred to as a left brain dominant approach,
that depends heavily on a parallel confirmation from other
sources, which again could be based on reliable theoretical and
experimental experience of other trustworthy intellectuals using
the same logical approach. When an investigator finds that the
sequential inferential analytical process is insufficient, when
researching the hidden, submerged, eclipsed, occulted,
camouflaged aspects of simultaneous phenomenon, he can
develop a parallel, simultaneous, synchronised or holistic
technique commonly referred to as a right brain dominant
approach, that allows him to actually mentally experience it as a
real activity giving a self confirmatory internal solution.
One can raise a point of issue by stating that instrumented visual
displays of complex phenomenon can do the same thing. It is not
so for two reasons. Firstly, a real physical or mental human
experience that is conditioned by all the senses simultaneously
cannot be reproduced in its totality by any artificial or
synthesised effort. Secondly, instrumented live or synthesised
creation of complex phenomenon is necessarily based on a deep
prior mathematical knowledge of that class of event, to make it
understandable and reproducible. Suthra 6 defines such internal
113
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
confirmatory experiences as a Siddhi and a detailed explanation
of the process is given in appendix H that elucidates the reason
for its success. At the fundamental level, all human experience is
indeed a mental process. The old adage that a picture is worth a
thousand words can be extended to mean that a realistic mental
experience is worth a million pictures. If there is a doubt about
its efficacy , it would become very clear if one accepts that a
realistic phenomenon is a holographic event on a macro scale
then the cerebral creation becomes an identical resonant
oscillatory reproduction on a micro scale. This resonant mode of
transfer covers the spectrum of hidden-coherent phenomenon
like telepathy, clairvoyance, precognition etc..
The old gramophone reproduced the entire range of orchestral
music merely through the focussed point of a needle. As a quick
example, 12 witnesses surrounding an accident site will give 12
sequential accounts of the incident, based on each individual’s
location, to a judge for a decision. After listening to them, he
mentally sees the “instant” of the accident by analysing those 12
statements through a simultaneous intellectual cognitive process
of juxtaposing their corroborative statements. While the judge
may not have witnessed the accident, his mental analysis of the
cross correspondence of the statements of twelve witnesses in
the ‘simultaneous’ mode would provide him with the proving
connections to enable him to actually “see” the event in his
mind. Whereas the actual witnesses would never mentally get
“the birds eye view” of the event as the judge did, for they
would have been mentally conditioned by the position from
which they physically saw the accident as a sequence and the
important fact that witnessing of an event from one location
automatically excluded them from witnessing from other
locations at the same moment. To mentally see the event as the
judge did they must follow the process that he had experienced.
This mode of search for truth has been demonstrated, verified
and attested innumerable times by philosophers, saints, mystics,
clairvoyants and others endowed with a natural right brain
dominated para-psychological aptitude. Only in a holographic
114
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Substratum could the cerebral vibrations resonate in synchrony
with itself to faithfully reproduce an instant of its reality. Just as
electromagnetic sequential resonance is the base for the entire
spectrum of communication & entertainment devices, the same
phenomenon in the form of simultaneous transmigratory
resonance called coherent, superposed , superconductive activity
forms the base for a much wider spectrum of para-psychological,
astrological, tidal and related spontaneous phenomenon. In
physics this coherent state is encountered in the form of
ferromagnetism, superconductivity, asymptotic freedom in quark
behaviour etc. Based on Sankhya, it would not be wrong to say
that all knowledge, intelligence, experience and existence itself
is only a vibratory ensemble with an extended field of reducing
vibratory count-rate ending in equilibrium. While there is no
doubt what so ever of the existence of the para normal, it is not a
magical quality.
Disbelief is solely due to the inability of such specialists to
communicate in the language of sequential rationality called
mathematical logic and as shown above the existing
mathematical base just could not expose this simultaneous
spectrum hidden, eclipsed or camouflaged behind the “zero”
unit of “observational” time. One cannot divide by zero time! As
a simple example, a crowd of people would vouch for the single
clap in the 10 simultaneous claps episode, whereas the para-
normal person would insist on having heard more than one clap
(by instinctively discriminating the loudness or potential factor)
but he may not be able to prove it rationally. The Aharanov /
Bom experiment to detect the phase shift in the potential is in the
same category. One important change in the mathematical
approach to solving problems in the coherent field must be
accepted by the investigator. Since the equation of interactions in
the Substratum is balanced every instant, time or cycle varying
changes have no real meaning but every integer count has; for it
follows a logarithmic process. Hence the number of real
alternative answers are as many as the counts involved and the
maximum in the Sankhyan cycle is 1050 ; so if he is prepared to
115
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
do as many iterations then he is assured of having a complete
knowledge of all phenomenon in his scale of existence, meaning
that there is no uncertainty in the Substratum but only the
impossibility of dealing with such large simultaneous numbers
on a sequential basis. This concept, attributed to Dirac and other
physicists, goes under the name of large number hypothesis in
physics The logic is explained in Suthras 46 to 50.
Since Sankhya principles are based on self evident axioms the
problem of re-counting of the common cube at the junction gets
eliminated automatically by the concept of self-similarity in
numerical integer combinations and in fact it commences where
Fourier, accredited with developing the periodic wave analysis
transforms, left off – at the zero interval. The example of the
“simultaneous ten claps within the instant”, exposes the zero
time interval between the ten claps and the current mathematical
procedures cannot deal with it accurately and precisely. The
simultaneous ten claps will superpose instantly to produce a
square wave edge approximation in zero time by applying
Fourier principles. A vertical edge of a true square wave is a
simultaneous representation of two sequential events at two
different potential levels at the same instant and both of which
are the equivalents of the “point” in space and the “infinitesimal”
in time. Since only vibrations are being dealt with, the potential
difference, signified by the vertical height in a square wave, must
be identifiable as a real physically fixed location for at a “zero or
instant” time interval it is impossible to measure a rate of
movement. Logic demands that the two different potentials, at
the top and bottom of the vertical edge, at the same instant, must
have a scale-invariant interactive connection, without violating
the principle of causality. In the language of special relativity, it
forms the ideal static rigid measuring rod that must follow the
same rules of mathematical logic.
Could there be a mathematical procedure that interactively
connects, two different potentials of two simultaneous activities
at different levels, simultaneously within the instant? Such a
mathematical process exists in the form of a Moolaprakriti self-
116
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
similar integer power series that does not contradict the known
laws of science. It polarises this vertical potential in infinite
ways through “infinitesimal simultaneous rotations” in identical
time constant intervals with predetermined coefficients to
balance the super symmetric             state of the undetectable
components of the Substratum to a constant unity value by
tunnelling. The quantised rotation or change of phase is done by
mere sliding the index of the self similar ratio, up or down be
one unit at any point and all the other index automatically
change to equalise to unity at the SAME moment. It is scale
invariant and functionally the equivalent of metric Euclidean
space dealt with in relativity. It means that, if the interaction
along the x axis varies as a kinetic change in velocity or
frequency then the y axis must also simultaneously vary as a
potential change in wave numbers or height to keep the vector
sum constant. It introduces the necessity of endowing even a line
integral in electromagnetic theory or a geodesic in general
relativity, with an identifiable potential value that has a starting
gradient of 1 by 2. It was this factor that the Lorentz transform
identified but was interpreted as shrinking rods and slowing
clocks as space was thought to be empty and moving particles as
independent bodies with specific identifiable characteristics.
In special relativity, briefly the definition of simultaneity is, that
two events at A and B appear at the same instant when observed
from the midpoint M of interval AB. If M is real and occupies
even an infinitesimal space it is impossible to establish the real
centre because two observers can never occupy the same
location at the same instant, (the common axis point mentioned
earlier must belong to one or the other half) and any
observational process is time-cycle dependant that has an
inherent uncertainty so theoretically simultaneity could never be
established by such a process of                 measurement. The
mathematical notion of an infinitesimal lulls one’s reason into
accepting its insignificance but the awareness, that there exist
virus and micro-organism with functions as complex as humans,
in its scale, must open our mind into accepting the need to
117
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
change our view of space and avoid the generalisation that the
concept of the infinitesimal can be extended to any level. The
point, infinitesimal, line integral, null geodesic and other such
mathematical and mental artefacts of supportive logic do not
really exist in isolation or as absolute values. The reciprocal
value of the infinitesimal displacement field is a large number
that must stand for a coherent potential in a relative theory.
Logic demands the recognition of the complementary aspect of
any parameter: Small time interval leads to high energy rates or
a spatial point similarly spells out a large coherent potential. One
cannot be without the other and that is what Sankhya emphasises
a number of times. The hard truth is that everything that man
knows is built up by interpreting vibrations and the number of
vibrations that can occupy the same place can be infinite, hence a
“common point” in three dimensional space can hide a universe
of vibrations. But the sad part is that man can quantify the
observable universe only by detecting the sequential vibrations
he cam measure but is oblivious to the simultaneous activity he
cannot detect! If man is serious about really understanding ALL
phenomenon he cannot ignore this fact but must have the
courage and skill to quantify the invisible, simultaneous
vibrations by axiomatic means. As a pointer there are 18
incrementally graded quark levels but theoretical premises based
on empiricism in particle physics extends it only to 6 levels;
exactly a third but the levels are logarithmic.
The ideological relativistic difference between a rigid rod and
ticking clock is wiped out in the Substratum because holistically
the rigid measuring rod is in fact it’s undetectable components
mimicking a “rigid row of closely packed clocks” showing the
simultaneous (same or synchronous or coherent phase) time-
cycles and the clock, on the other hand, is similarly mimicked as
an “infinitesimal or point “ section of this rigid rod showing
sequential phase changes in its state of activity, in the
undetectable components of the Substratum. What differentiates
the rod and clock is the phase difference (right angle at
maximum difference) at the instant of an observable interaction
118
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
because what the observer is dealing with is only the state of the
components in the Substratum and that must be defined by two
aspects, the simultaneous and sequential characteristics. More so
in any bound or gravitational system due to the phase angle
being distorted, by the superpositioning process, towards the
“static or massive or attracting” center.
The relativistic phenomenon governed by the Lorentz transform,
also exists in the Substratum in contrast to the view in general
relativity that it fails in high “density” regions. Instead of the
rod shrinking, the potential, synonymous with the vertical edge
of the square wave, turns into a vector with a “phase angle” that
changes the coherence pattern of its simultaneous vibratory
domain or it twists. The product of potential Linga and kinetic
Bhava vibratory counts never looses its unitary status, not in zero
time nor even in eternity, not in a single count nor even in 10 50
count rate. It cannot because what ‘travels’ are only vibrational
changes. In a fundamentally democratic field it is logically
incorrect to accept that two different basic parameters could
exist simultaneously or is needed to fulfil the same function.
Therefore conceptually the potential is nothing other then
sequential displacements taking place in zero time (or the instant
unitary cycle) and the velocity is the potential acting in
sequential displacements in multiples of “zero time” or cycles, as
viewed by an observer from his position. In his absence both
‘potential and velocity’ merges by acting simultaneously so the
net result is that no change or movement is observable. The
observers obstructive presence causes the polarisation by
upsetting the coherent state which regains the potential balance
internally within the cycle. If not, the oscillatory excursions in
opposite directions loose its equality, which then causes the
central node to move in proportion to the difference or
inequality, displaying the quality of movement, velocity or
acceleration. It is just vibrations moving along a closely packed
plenum of cubic components in a field with a modulus of
deformation amounting to 1050 count rate.

119
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The concept of a holographic base for all phenomenon requires a
constant oscillatory background state, derived from an axiomatic
condition natural to physical laws. Otherwise, a dynamic system
dependant on a “start and stop or begin and end“ parameter will
only become another variant of the “Big-bang” syndrome. The
value of the constant oscillatory background must be sufficiently
large to unequivocally accommodate the observed spectrum of
phenomenon. As a logical corollary a faultless system of control
is needed to support the maintenance of such an oscillatory
value at an exact level, so that it eliminates implosive or
explosive        runaway conditions in thermal, nuclear,
electromagnetic, gravitational and other observed energy groups.
Moreover this state of control, must have exquisite
characteristics of feed-forward or advanced mode control, tied in
with a feed-back or retarded method, backed up by an adequate
reserve power loop to meet every exigency, any-where, every-
where and for all times. Such a system exists in the Substratum
and one of its “random” manifestation in its simplest form to
maintain the oscillatory state within a ten millionth deviation
band, is the controversial 2.7 degrees Kelvin background
radiation, misinterpreted as a remnant of an initial expanding
fireball era. In this context, Einstein is supposed to have said
that God does not play dice but Sean Sheeter (Author of ‘The
unified model of the universe’) pithily adds that he gave it to
man to play with!
The control parameters in the Substratum covers six sequences
in three loops and is specially dealt with in a number of Suthras
(55 to 68) which highlights the constant forward control
necessary to maintain a Substratum in a coherent and stable
state. It is extremely illuminating to find that the intellectual
efforts of 5 important scientists like Newton, Maxwell, Planck,
Hoyle-Narlikar and Einstein, who laid the cornerstones in
physics and incidentally extended it to cosmology, could have
unified all the five areas that Sankhya did centuries back.
Newton empirically derived the static gravitational macro field
parameters at the outer level by developing calculus to prove the
120
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
concept of a mechanical-object based reality mathematically and
established the gravity constant G as a unit of dimensionality. It
is half the reciprocal value derived by using Sankhya principles
based on the “Thaama-Raja-Sathwa“ Guna concepts. The
Newtonian derivation is equivalent to using only the Thaama
aspect and ignoring the Sathwa and Raja factors involved in the
common zero interval that reduced the true G value by half.
Maxwell derived from micro field theory the same gravity
parameter, that seems very different, by               following a
combination of empirical and theoretical premises that were
similar to the Sankhyan Sathwa concepts but kept aside the
Thaama and Raja factors. As shown in a later mathematical
example the impedance value 377 of Maxwell space is in fact
related directly and exactly to the Newtonian gravity constant G
because Maxwell took into reckoning again the common cube
between the vertical and horizontal that made a logarithmic
difference, which separated the same coherent field as two
different E and B axial activities at the observable or sequential
level. Planck mathematically exposed this missing common
cube at zero interval as a quantum with density at the detectable
level but the state of mathematics did not encourage him to look
into this cubic quantum activity within the instant cycle.
In Sankhyan terms Planck’s effort dealt with the Thaama and
Sathwa states but he failed to expose the Raja interactive state
involving the gravity parameter G hidden in the quantum as a
simultaneous phenomenon that was unimaginably larger than the
spectrum he had investigated, for Sankhya shows it to be the
repository of all potential. The near ideal Hoyle-Narlikar theory
based on conformal invariance eminently unified both the macro
and micro fields at the observable level and the attempt to bridge
the internal shortfall in potential, by absorption of radiation, was
ideologically correct, for it provided both the necessary
compensatory “mass” build up and the consequent phase shift in
internal coherence (thereby eliminating the Hubble parameter).
However the “instantaneous” mathematical barrier prevented it
from predicting phenomenon that could be verified. In Sankhyan
121
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
terms it justified the Raja link to both the Sathwa and Thaama
states in external Bhava time, but it fell short by failing to
mathematically provide the tunnelling instant Abhiman advanced
potential connection with the Ahankar phase shift to balance the
Bhava external change. Einstein bridged the Maxwell shortfall
in potential by the Lorentz mechanism that provided an equated
relationship to velocity at the exposed or radiated level but failed
to extend it to simultaneous or high density regions, once again
due to a conceptual breakdown in mathematically appreciating
that the point and the interval were as important as the Universe
itself.
While Einstein was probably able to realise conceptually the
total equivalence of electromagnetic and gravitation
phenomenon, he came close to a total unification by his intuitive
but arbitrary inclusion of a cosmological constant, that in fact
provided the perfect conversion scale of time and space within
the instant, but his concept of mathematics and the structure of
space confounded by the Hubble parameter, left a logical void
that he could not bridge. The fact that he postulated the principle
of equivalence brought him very close to seeing the holographic
nature of phenomenon but the power of geometry by Reimann
and others held sway. The fact that the principle of relativity led
naturally into an enigmatic ‘four’ dimensional space gave the
clue to the holographic nature of reality. One would be forced to
describe a hologram in terms of an understandable 3 dimensional
space in which the time varying vibrations remained in the same
locations leading to the illusion of four dimensions.
In Sankhyan terms he investigated the Raja characteristics just
outside the instant, the external metric of spatial “infinitesimal
distance and zero time” which were in the sequential Bhava
domain, but failed to connect the Abhiman / Ahankar phase
lying just alongside, inside the instant cycle. Maharishi Kapila
taught man this little trick of peering over this “instant” barrier,
by making him mentally change the so called horizontal axis
‘velocity or Bhava’ representation, onto its head, as a vertical
axis ‘potential-Linga-vector’ as an Abhiman potential in instant
122
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
time. The description of cubes stacked in the x and y axis
depends very much on the observers orientation. Sankhya proved
that both were exactly the same in a holographic, oscillatory,
field of the Substratum, that is in a coherent, synchronised,
eternally dynamic, unmanifest state of total democratic, self-
similar freedom called Kaivalya; which is the ultimate yet it is
also the original primordial state. It would not be wrong to create
an axiom which says “vibrations remain vibrations despite all
changes and manipulations” and “vibrations remaining in the
same location make it look solid”.
Aharanov-Bom’s experimental verification of the hidden vector
potential, the EPR experiment and Bell’s theorem, among many
others, are hesitant confirmations of the validity of the Sankhyan
concept of the Substratum. Every scientific intellectual, Mach
onwards, has sought a universal connection and at the same time
abjured the conceptual dependence on a preferred or postulated
base to describe the Universe. Maharishi Kapila’s mathematical
definition of the Substratum makes it truly democratic and
satisfies the highest principles of theoretical evolution. In
physics and chemistry the reason for the “peculiarity” of the
particle spectrum and the periodic table is due to the Linga
(superposed) - Bhava (phase shifted) polarisation of the
coherent potential illustrated above and science has regularised
it into an acceptable mathematical regime through a generalised
atomic table periodicity formulation like (2 x n2 ) which
overcomes the error of a recount of the common cube, by
dilution.
To illustrate, the true periodicity at the basic level of integer
combinations is (n2 + n) x ½. = P but when the value of n is
very large P = n2 x ½. . As an example if n = 2 then P = (n2 + n)
x ½. = 3 whereas by P = n2 x ½. = 2.            At the level of the
Substratum this aspect cannot be overlooked. Sankhya solves
this problem by a combinatorial process using integer number
series that not only applies to the atomic periodic table but also
to every interactive state of the components in the Substratum, in
exactly the same way and the same scale. In the process, it
123
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
eminently clarifies the reason for the “ladder or nested “
mass/energy structure of the entire spectrum of atomic and
nuclear particles with only three levels of classification right
through the quark spectrum. the Planck mass and finally the
blackhole.. The Substratum has it all. Everything that man
wants to invent, discover or find by experimental stone-
throwing, is already there. What is needed is a holistic approach
coupled with intellectual clarity and a responsible attitude to
objectively use this treasure house just for his wellbeing but
strongly resist the temptation to exploit it, for it is also the source
of all intelligence that ruthlessly controls imbalance by initiating
a reactive process instantly but to be completed in future time.
Now, the most important conclusion from the foregoing
explanation is that it can only happen in a Substratum compatible
with the Sankhyan definition based on a holographic model of
phenomenal interaction. Further, the Sankhyan success in
explaining interactions at the basic level confirms another axiom
that is often overlooked in mathematics and that is, logically an
elementary unit less than one cannot exist in reality and
conceptually one is infinity upon infinity.




124
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                      Summary Of Suthras.

The original Sanskrit Suthras were created for oral transmission
as evidenced by the metrical format and the austere presentation
of a subject of such complex structure. The manuscripts, though
accurate in its effort to convey the original meaning, contains
several ambiguities that naturally creep in over long periods.
Differences in several manuscripts from varying periods have
created an uncertainty and vagueness which has lead to
depending more on the original phonetics for decoding th correct
meaning. Hence the phonetic presentation in the Roman script is
analysed and decoded in the “Detailed Analysis Of Suthras”
section.
Though the Sankhyakarika ostensibly belongs to the shelves of
Vedic philosophy and religion, its axiomatic mathematical
contents on the contrary, compels its placement on the racks of
Cosmic & Particle physics and Quantum Mechanics. Therefore
an overview of the real meaning of Sankhya Suthras is given
here to impress on the scientifically oriented intellectual, the
rational flow of scientific thinking at its logical best. The actual
translations will show the rigorous and irrefutable logic that
connects the original Suthras in Sanskrit to the theorems
presented in English. The headings, though not in the original,
have been created to highlight its essential meaning.
                       Fundamental space
1. The dynamic substratum:
Investigating the triad of interactive stresses confirms that such
interactive modes of stresses exist but it would not have been
detectable, had it not been for the existence of the coherent -
perpetual - dynamic - unmanifest state of its existence (of the
substratum).
2. Qualities of substratum
Standard methods of evaluation through detection are affected by
distortion, attenuation and inferior resolution to details; but an
alternate method that is totally satisfactory, is based on the
principle of discriminating the basic and dynamic substratum
125
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
into its appropriate components of the unmanifest, manifest, the
self-potential and kinetic or dynamic potential.
3. Axiomatic 3 dimensional wave fundamentals of substratum.
: The fundamental resonant oscillatory state is synchronised,
coherent, resonant and stable; the first interactive oscillatory
state is of maximum intensity of acceleration; then there are
seven levels of coherent, harmonic and oscillatory interactive
stages followed by an expanding radiation above a sixteenth
order of the fundamental value; the nuclear core is neither
oscillatory nor harmonically interactive
                      Intellectual Verification
4. Verification of reality through axiomatic proof.
Siddhi or conclusive holistic proof is arrived at by a process of
logical and theoretical analysis of information from observations,
inferences and axiomatic principles. When such holistic
conclusions are further condensed by using the threefold
analytical process with appropriate rationale and theory, it is
established as a conclusive axiomatic theorem.
5. Process of verification of detectable phenomenon.
With reference to persistent continuous sensory perception of
phenomenon, there are three aspects of information with
characteristics like (positive) detectable, (negative) undetectable,
(neutral) original characteristics that can be measured, analysed
and interpreted to establish an axiomatic theorem or principle.
6. Process of holistic derivation of proof is Siddhi
 And in the case of phenomenon that is imperceptible, mobile,
expansive and hence undetectable, inferential method using
holistic, deductive, logical, verification technique to mentally
experience phenomenon, is known as Siddhi (perfect resonance).
               Axiomatic reasons for nondetection
7. The reasons why manifestation may not be detected.
Extremely far or near distances, mental and sensory
inefficiencies, subtle or attenuated conditions, occultation or
eclipsing of the object, poor background contrast, camouflaging
effect (are the causes of non detection or non measurement of
phenomenon).
126
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
8. Reason why the fundamental substratum is not detectable.
The non-detectability (of the substratum) is due to the extremely
attenuated reactions put out and not because it (substratum) does
not exist. Only reactions are detectable. For when the reaction of
the primary or first displacement takes place then a sequence of
oscillations are detected that are either in its original form or
harmonics.
9. Logical reasons why substratum must exist if manifestation
                exists.
It is axiomatically illogical to accept that continuous or all
possible modes of action (manifestation) are possible without a
physical cause; the ability to act in all possible ways must be due
to the existence of a cause, therefore it becomes an axiomatic
rule.
10. Detection of manifestation is due to changes, the lack of
                which makes phenomenon undetectable.
The caused detectable effect of manifested phenomenon are
relatively temporary; confined to limited region; proceed from
action to action; resulting in a sequence of actions; and also
becomes the cause of initiating further action; with identified
characteristics; has the quality of being substantial or with mass;
as it is a resultant, so it is a secondary trait; and the unmanifest
cannot be detected because of the inability to discern such
effects.
                   Self-similar law of interaction
11. Ability to discriminate 3 aspects of Gunas or interactive
                stresses is the cause of detectability.
The inability to discriminate between the triad of stressed states
that form the dynamic connection is the cause of not detecting
phenomenon in a synchronised, static or unmanifest state. The
triplicity of dynamic interactions that connect it, is a principle
that applies to the first or primary intense state and the
succeeding reactive states of manifestation and likewise to the
nucleus which however is in the opposite state (non detectable
state)
12. Characteristics of Gunas (triad of interactive stresses).
127
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Just as the human being undergoes, when under stress, a three
stage transfer from a state of buoyant feelings through a calm
state to a state of utter despair; the three interactions of the Guna
are from a state of free and mobile expansion through a balanced
and resonant interface to a state of compact static contraction. As
a result the three states are capable of mutually interacting to
override or strengthen or weaken, one or both at the expense of
the remaining aspects; be creative or destructive as a whole;
associate or join or pair or combine to form groups; and also
exist by itself as a self supporting resonant or dynamic entity.
13. Definition of Gunas.
Sathwa is the interaction which operates outward at the
maximum rate with the required intensity and energy to transmit
the interaction beyond the level of the first octet of interactions
past the nuclear boundary that is in a fluidic or flexible state;
Raja is the interaction in the transition region of seven oscillatory
plus the first forming the octet of interactions; that shuttles
inward or outward to transfer the interactions from nuclear
boundary to the second radial boundary and vice-versa;
Thaama is the decelerating interaction acting inward forming the
static nuclear boundary;
Vrithi is the resultant interaction that is radiated in the form of a
self-sustained vortex of radiant energy created by the
permutations and combinations of the previous three levels of
interactions to transfer interaction or radiate energy.
 14. Holistic logic can predict hidden states.
Through a process of holistic analytical derivation of proof it is
proved that non detection or detection is due to the observers
inability or ability respectively to detect any or all of the three
modes of exchange or transfer of interactions. And the very
process of Siddhi or 'holistic analytical derivation of proof' is
itself due to the unmanifest state of the substratum reacting
through the action of the Gunas or three modes of transfer of
interactions by it's own inner motivation or potential or cause or
interaction to manifest as awareness or consciousness .

128
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                    Phases of oscillatory states
15. Cyclic oscillatory interaction creates natural waveform.
Cyclic interaction at the interface is due to a sequentially
changing value that is due to acceleration or deceleration of an
interaction . This cyclic action is the cause and effect, by turns,
to attenuate and concentrate (expand and contract or decrease
and increase density) to produce an oscillatory waveform that is
a standard in nature.
 16. First change of phase occurs with increasing interaction.
In a manifestation of decelerating potential ,the triad of
interactions is initiated into action resulting in a rising or
increasing effort, interaction or pressure; and a transformation
occurs ; a distinctive change of state, like that of vapour
condensing to liquid, takes place when the inward going
interaction is brought to a very restful(=synchronised therefore
static state .
 17. Second change of phase creates nucleus .
The nucleus is the location, centre or core that holds the power,
potential, interaction or energy produced as a result of the cyclic
collision or aggregation due to close contact, back to back, of the
oscillating volumes or waveforms, initiated or triggered into
action by the operating principle of the triad of Guna (interactive
interactions), in a relatively isolated, free and synchronised
state.
 [Summarising: the Purusha or nucleus is a superpositioning of
three dimensional oscillatory waveforms due to the mode of
action of the Gunas in a static state of dormant potential in the
undetectable, absolute substratum that is synchronised and
coherent, perpetually dynamic but unmanifest and the period
being determined solely by the time constant referred to in suthra
3 that forms the self potential referred in suthra 2. ]
          Nuclear state as superposed coherent activity
18. Logical proof that the nucleus is a conglomerate.
Since the causative action leading to aggregation and dissolution
or creation and destruction are not simultaneous or instantaneous
at the nuclear interface the holistic conclusion is that there must
129
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
be many nuclei or individual core components (Purusha) and
also because the reversal of interactions of the triad of
interactions (Gunas) produce multiple types of phenomenon
whereas it should have been singular, (had the nucleus been a
singular or elementary object).
19.      The complex nuclear state forms background for
                manifestation.
From previous Suthras the conversely inferential holistic
conclusion is that the nuclear state forms the background with
particulate or inertial mass, in which it is relatively seen as being
neutral, unhindered and static.
 20. Static and dynamic state is sustained by interaction.
Because of the proximity of the static and dynamic states the
static state seems dynamic and through the action of the Gunas
the dynamic seems to behave in a static mode that maintains a
balance.
21. Nuclear state is reference background.
Fundamental measurement of phenomenon references nucleus.
Therefore the static nuclear state provides the basic background
to detect or measure the first, (primary or fundamental) active
(manifested) state as a comparative or relative difference.
Manifestation of phenomenon proceeds on the principle of
fulfilling the need to maintain a balance like when a blind man
and lame man team up to behave normally and effectively.
                 Logic of self-sustaining activity
22. Mathematical derivation of the dynamic self-similar state.
By the action of the primary interaction a self sustaining
oscillatory state is established from which a series of measurable
or detectable energy is radiated at a value that is at a sixteenth
power of the primary value and in a progressive series
incremented to the sixteenth level that binds or condenses
phenomenon through five levels into five sets of manifested
phenomenon.
23. Ascertainment by axiomatic mathematical logic,
   Intellectual logical confirmation process involves the
application of axiomatic law in an expansive mode, backed with
130
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
knowledge, flexibility to change scales and ratios in the order of
powers whereas the opposite             contractive, inverted and
fractionising concepts lead to misconceptions and errors of
judgement.
24. Mathematical description of field force as a spectrum.
Static potential and kinetic self-similar force (or energy) initiate
action in a progressive incremental value in sequential sets of
two      to form a spectrum containing a sequential group of
eleven , in groups of fives, of field (subtle) forces.
25. Expansive interaction rises to 11th. Power
The expansive Satwik state has a set of eleven levels of change.
The compressive Thaamasic change initiated through self-action
elemental particles with mass and self-sustaining vortex of
charge the interactive Rajasic state is both expansive and
compressive.
            Cerebral system as an universal function
26. Efferent and afferent sensory systems.
Efferent or input sensory responses are light, sound, smell,
chemical (taste) and contact (touch) and the afferent output or
action responses are defined as            oscillatory, exchanging,
transporting, radiating and creating.
27. Interactions in the sensory systems.
Mind or the cerebral system is capable of processing both the
efferent or incoming input sensory information and afferent or
outgoing action oriented outputs and it can produce a specific
output despite the diversity created by the permutations and
combinations of the internal aspects of the three Gunas with the
numerous external incoming signals.
28. The five levels of cyclic vortex (photonic) activities.
The five types of sensory input signals are activated by discrete
quantum of forces and it results in five categories of output as
oscillatory, interactive, transmigrating, radiating and creative
activities.
               Perpetual oscillation and radiation
29. Definition of self similar internal activity and radiation

131
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The cyclic vortex functions on self similar principles upto the
third power , is non-synchronous, and yet interacts internally
together in an extraordinary way. But in the synchronous
accelerated state at the fifth power it becomes a fundamental
unit of energy radiation.
30. Definition of a cyclic vortex and a spherical harmonic
               oscillator.
When the oscillatory cycle            count in all directions act
simultaneously or synchronously and is raised to the 4th. Power,
a cyclic self-supporting Vrithi (photon) is formed. When it acts
non-synchronously or sequentially it becomes detectable and
measurable with a degree of certainty. In the initial state prior to
the above when the oscillatory count reaches the power of three
and is synchronised and acts simultaneously in all directions , it
is in a self supporting harmonic oscillatory state but is not
detectable or observable.
31. The cyclic vortex is kept in continuous oscillation only by its
               internal potential.
The cyclic vortex or spherical oscillator is kept in continuous
interactive exchange upto the very end (limit) only by the
nuclear or core potential developed by the mutual exchange of
internally motivated and triggered self similar and self organised
impulse or force and there is no other external potential cause.
                   Potential as coherent states
32. The static and kinetic potential limits.
The potential rises to the 13th. power to accelerate superpose and
radiate. Consequently the kinetic potential rises to the 10th.
Power to accelerate, superpose and radiate.
33. The internal and external potential limits.
The internal limit of potential is at the third power and the
externalising detectable factor defined as existing in present time
is upto the 10th. Power. The third power factor contributes to
internal bonding or it is a limiting state .
34. The potential to act is at the 5th.power level.
The will or internal potential to act increases rate to 5th. power of
both the specific and non specific or the observable and the
132
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
hidden sensory signals. Sound signals relate to speech or
oscillatory functions whereas the rest relate to all the five
observable interactions.
           Third order constraint cause phenomena
35. The formation of a basic field is determined by the 3 rd. Order
                damping action.
At the point when all measurable interactions plunge to its limit
and form a coherent bond it is a measure of the effort involved
and therefore the third power of this bond forms the base or
limiting medium , the remaining powers of interaction use this as
medium.
36. Decay of radiated phenomenon.
Spectrum of light transmission process is a complex and
mutually interactive Guna exchange sequence and it is totally
controlled by the Purusha potential and it is the only coherent
motivating factor clearly till its end.
37. Extraction of potential energy from the Purusha domain.
A comprehensive and extraordinary use can be made in the
following way. The potential of the Purusha can be attained
from the minute coherent state hidden inside the Purusha by
repeated precisely triggered inputs to initiate the primary
interactions.
38. Classification of activity of Vrithi and elements
The self-generated vortex or Vrithi has a non specific or wide
range of activity level while the elements are at five levels upto
the fifth power of activity . The spectrum logically covers the
classes of activity states defined as synchronised, non
synchronised, interactive, superposed and coherent
39. Genetic code
The field sustained by the fundamental source of energy bonds
into three organic species. The mobile field is constant and
controlled and the organic states of three species are cyclic or
periodic.
           Superposed states create ground potential
40. Linga state as coherent and superposed oscillations.

133
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Static mass states are created by maximally absorbing and
superpositioning the entire spectrum of vibratory or oscillatory
states, from the largest and strongest to the (limit) finest,
minimal kinetic charged states.

41. The need for the substratum as supporting framework for
                 manifestation.
Just as it is not possible to present a picture without a supporting
base nor cast a shadow without an appropriate pillar, so also it is
impossible to have the synchronised and superpositioned static
state without the required supportive base.
42. The synchronised state provides attracting potential to build
                 up mass.
The synchronised and coherent state of the nuclear core forms
the target potential to attract the oscillatory interactions to
synchronise and superposition itself circumferentially,
simultaneously, similar to the movements in a dance, which
increases and strengthens resonant state of the interactions .
                  The balance in interactive states
43. Conditions under which the laws of interaction are certain.
The source or starting point of the axiomatic laws of resonant
action are from the state when the charged interactive state is in a
state of perfect resonance and the starting point or start of time-
cycle-period count of measurement commences when the action
is in a state of relative rest or static state for detection is only
possible when the detected component is at a restful state.
44. The mode of natural action based on rules.
Satwic expansive actions are supported by axiomatic laws and
expands towards a free state but actions opposing it results in
reduced states that leads to Thaamasic or compressive states that
are restrictive. Inner self potential is the only cause of
synchronisation and establishment of coherent state but
obstruction or restrictions results in a confined and bonded state.
45. State of unbalance is the motivating cause of manifestation.
When the Rajasic interactive states are equal and balanced,
accumulation or increase of mass by absorption or
134
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
superpositioning of active displacements occur. When
unbalanced or unequal the increase or decrease in force causes
acceleration or deceleration creating the manifest spectrum of
universal phenomenon.
                 Spectrum of interactions defined
46. Interactions in the synchronised state causes 50 orders of
               change.
The ascertained order of the spectrum of interactive states due to
the conditions of unbalance, non synchronisation, balance and
coherent synchronisation caused by the interplay of three Guna
modes of interaction rise upto 50 ( power index).
47. Balanced , synchronised and its reversed variation sequence
               of interactions.
A sequence of 5 orders (power index) of change is created by the
three varying states of interaction like non-synchronous,
interactive change and synchronous. Weak and unsynchronised
states have 28 orders while the balanced phase has 9 orders and
the perfectly synchronised state has 8 orders of sequentially
variable levels.
48. Order of compression increase when one, two and three axis
               synchronise.
Interactive changes in the compressive Thaamasic state proceed
on the basis of 8 orders of change along one axis and increases
by the same order when it synchronises with another axis at a
deeper level. At the next intermediate level it increases by 10
orders and at the final core level it increases by 18 and by
another 18 at deepest core level synchronisation. That is 8 +
5+4 , followed by (5) in each axis and finally (8+10) 18 . It is a
combinatorial process of incremental rates that can synchronise
and remain in balance only as even numbered levels.
49. The 11 & 17 orders of the weak and balanced groups.
Eleven orders of expansive interactions cover the observable
range out of the previous 28 orders mentioned before. The
balance of 17 orders consists of the balanced and coherent states
and the radiant states. With the 5 orders of radiant state it forms

135
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
22 orders. The 17 orders form the common potential to both
phases.
50. Nuclear balancing parameters
The interaction inside the nuclear state can be defined as at the
fourth power, initiating cause of action and responsive self
reaction , the time period of the reaction and the destined
potential available for the reaction. Externally detectable
fundamental activity is categorised as being at the fifth power
and when these two act together synchronously it is the ninth
power.
                     Interactions cause stress.
51. Colliding interaction cause of vibrations.
Knowledge gained through research on vibratory or oscillatory
stress caused by colliding interactions follow three step action
(of compression – shuttling- expansion –Guna mode) leading to
intensive superpositioned, divergent, or synchronised states,
raised to the eighth power in a coherent mode. The original state
prior to the interaction has been established to be in a controlled,
compressed, cubic, volumetric state, raised to the third power.
52. The polarisation of phenomenon into coherent potential
                (mass) and kinetic potential (charge) modes.
Neither can a characteristic potential source exist without a
kinetic phase nor can a potential phase without a kinetic mode. A
vorticular particle is initiated by a potential source. The potential
is classified as mass and the kinetic phase as charge from which
dual combination all phenomenon is initiated and maintained by
a dual mode of polarisation.
53. Guna classification.
Natural or inorganic or matter oriented phenomenon is the result
of 8 orders of variations and the organic or sub human order is
fivefold . The human order is from a single variant, these three
classes succinctly control the complete spectrum of
phenomenon.
54. The distribution of Guna interactive states.
Ascending order of outward manifestation is predominantly
Satwic and the descending inward mode of creation is
136
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
predominantly Thaamasic and the intermediate range is
predominantly Rajasic and it is consistently so right from the
starting dynamic creative field to the final coherent static order
of manifestation.
55. Stress in three modes follows self similar laws in the
                dynamic substratum.
Therefore the process of decay and absorption introduces
interactive stresses that maintain the dynamic state of the
Purusha and on its absorption of the vorticular interactive
activity by the nuclear core the process of superpositioning
continues until the interactions are minimised and a coherent self
similar state is established.
56. Manifestation is the result of interactions to maintain the
                balance between nucleus and boundary.
In this way interactive oscillatory activity is initiated and
perpetuated from the intense fundamental activity at the source
to the final coherent superposed massive state at the isolated
nuclear boundary where the self potential balances with the
reactive potential at the starting point .
                Coherence causes potential states
57. Attainment of a coherent superposed state initiates
                oscillatory state.
The growth of a calf is due to the flow of milk that seems to
have commenced without a cause or specific instruction ; in a
similar way the formation of the nucleus takes place by the
stress transmigration of a static potential through the gradual
attenuation of the primary kinetic force into a synchronised state
of freedom by its own internal motivation or initiating activity to
balance forces.
58. The unmanifest state maintains the potential to act.
People are motivated into maintaining a state of activity to
reduce their zeal for action; similarly the unmanifest state
maintains the Purusha in an isolated state free of stresses by
absorbing the stresses of the continuous static through kinetic
balancing interactions.
59. Forming of nucleus due to reduction of potential difference
137
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Just as the external exhibition of a dancer's performance reduces
his urge to continue his performance because it satisfies his
desires; similarly the outward spreading of internally motivated
self energy diminishes its potential to radiate and thereby
reaches an interactive state of balance in an oscillatory state.
60. Cause of interactive oscillations
Various factors , controllable, corrective, supportive , non
supportive nuclear state along with the interactive Guna qualities
and its opposite coherent superposed states of dynamic and non
dynamic, potential and lack of potential maintains the
oscillatory activity.
           Synchronisation causes holographic states
61. The oscillatory displacement at the point of balance is very
                attenuated.
At the nuclear boundary the oscillatory displacements reduce to
such a minute angular oscillatory movement that its very
existence seems doubtful. The consequent reduction in the
interactive self potential does not ever allow it to radiate
detectable information on the state of interaction of the nuclear
region.
62. Interactions are cause of manifestation as a holographic
                phenomenon.
Therefore nothing is bound, released or translocated. Only the
oscillatory wave forms of interactions is bound or superposed by
synchronisation, released by desynchronisation and transferred
by transmigration due to unequal displacements and this
dynamic state continues endlessly.
                      Self-similar interactions
63. Interaction.
The oscillatory waveforms superposition itself by its own
potential to form the nuclear density by compressing it’s
waveforms to the seventh power when it becomes equal to the
static nuclear potential and when it expands it releases one
waveform at a time.
64. The lack of specific self-potential leads to a ground state.

138
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Hence fundamental research indicates that non availability of
self-potential is the cause of the existence of a potential sink
(ground state) and not due to any precise measure of interactive
control that a pure changeless ground state exists (in the nuclear
core of the components of the substratum.)
                     Equalisation of potentials
65. The state of balance when the nuclear boundary is in balance.
When the oscillatory interactions are minimised because of the
reduction in activity between the boundary and nuclear core, the
interactive current becomes neutral and the activities at the seven
radial levels becomes insignificant, the Purusha attains a firm
background state.
66. State of balance by eliminating the potential to act.
Observing the neutral state of one gives the proof that the
observable movement of the other has ceased and even though
both are together no interactive manifestation exists.
                   Conversion of charge to mass
67. Conversion of kinetic force into static potential as inertia or
                mass.
The basic principle of acquiring a solid state or mass is by
synchronising the components into a relatively static level by
allowing the spin angular momentum to be converted to a
potential state. The exchange or accumulation is through a self
similar proportion or ratio.
68. The final synchronised, coherent , dynamic state of isolated
                nucleus.
The process of acquiring mass is given effect by
superpositioning the interactive vortex like waveforms by
changing it into a gradually diminishing cyclic interaction that
reaches a synchronised and coherent state of balance within the
first or primary activity boundary. Attaining the synchronised
and coherent state eliminates delay, inertia or friction and allows
this state to continue unhindered in complete freedom.
               Heirarchy of knowledge transmission
69. The knowledge of the nuclear potential is codified in this
                work.
139
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The knowledge of the nuclear potential is encoded in this work
by the great Maharishi where-in the method of intellectually
ascertaining the process of manifestation of phenomenon from
its origin, through its growth and till its dissolution are
explained.
70. The hierarchy of information transmission
This pure and exotic doctrine the sage gave to Asuri who in turn
handed down to Panchasikha by whom it was extensively
propagated as the perfect set of principles explaining the mode of
action in reality




140
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                 Detailed Analysis Of Suthras.

[Note: The English translations from Sanskrit have been decoded
contextually and may differ from the traditional translation. The
Suthra sub-headings have been added to indicate it's contents and
is not a part of the original. The magnificence of Maharishi
Kapila’s intellectual skill is confirmed by the fact that space
which is the Substratum for all phenomenon, is never identified
directly or named as such, in order not to reduce it to the same
state as ordinary phenomenon, because the Substratum as
defined axiomatically by him is the fundamental and absolute
state of ‘being or existence’ that is equal to a divine state which
follows one axiomatic law.
The Sankhyakarika unifies all aspects of human intellectual
investigations into a single process defined through axioms, from
start to finish, thereby unifying science and religion, the two
apparently confrontational modes, further complicated by an
arbitrary division of material and spiritual qualities, in
investigating reality. Veda means ‘weave that which exists’ or
unify existing nature through logical reasoning or laws.
All the Sankhya Suthras in Sanskrit have been transliterated into
English and the closest holistic meaning of the complete Suthra
is given below each Sanskrit verse. As already emphasised in the
earlier section, the phonetics of this early creation seem to be
more important than the later scripted creations. The corrected
phonetic characteristics are given in Appendix 6: ‘The Sanskrit
Language” The specially prepared Lexicon in the appendix
section contains a glossary of Sanskrit-English equivalents of all
the key words in the Sankhya Suthras.
The Sanskrit terms in the Suthras contain advanced technical
information that are not covered by standard dictionaries.
Sanskrit dictionaries invariably highlight the passive, static or
generalised meaning, which relegates the dynamic characteristics
to the inferential level. Hence these have been decoded through
the Siddhi process and collated by a computer program based on
141
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
contextual reference and statistical comparisons. As indicated in
the introduction, the first Suthra itself has been mistranslated due
to conceptual errors. (See Comparison in the appendix section
for the analysis of the first Suthra.) The Preface and Introduction
contains the general principles on which the holistic meaning of
the Suthras were derived. Re-iterating those thoughts again, the
Sankhyakarika intellectually derives the Substratum of all
manifestation through rigorous, axiomatic logic. There are no
experimental inputs of any kind in Sankhya. Yet all the
scientific parameters derived only from axiomatic statements
have been found not only to be correct but also accurate beyond
expectation. Numerical values of formulas are given to see its
extraordinary accuracy and equivalence at a glance.
The final mathematical equivalent is given in both standard and
integer mathematical notation. As explained in the Introduction,
the Suthras must be integrated and understood by the Siddhi
process of Suthra 6. Hence explanations cannot be confined only
to the Suthra being dealt with but the derivations from later
theorems have to be brought in and may seem pre-emptive. As
the Suthras are presented in a terse and concise way, what may
apparently seem to be arbitrary back and forth references, cannot
be avoided if a complete and cogent explanation is to be given at
the appropriate stages.
Another significant point must be noted that the very first Suthra
in almost all important Sanskrit works contains the core theorem
and if one is able to understand it thoroughly, analysing the rest
of the supportive theorems become a secondary procedure or a
corollary. In Sankhya it is particularly true and the explanations
below contain the essential core mathematical principles in brief
from all the Suthras. Suthra 1 is a pivotal theorem and provides
the basis to understand subsequent Suthras. The descriptive
heading along each Suthra stands for a summarised meaning
derived from its contents and is not a part of the original text. It
displays at a glance the contextual meaning and also highlights
the logical connection to the preceding and following Suthras.
The Sankhyakarika in its original form was created for an oral
142
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
transmission process following the rules of metric verses. Hence
it is essential to follow the Siddhi process, mentioned in Sankhya
Suthra 4,5 and 6 to relate and connect the verses.and understand
its real meaning.




143
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 1.
The Dynamic Substratum

dhu:khathrayaabhighaathaajjijnaasaa
Stress triple interaction investigations
thadhabhighaathakey heythau .
Such interactive modes exist .
dhrishtey sa’apaarthhaa
detection      of such would have been meaningless
chennaikaanthaathyanthatho’abhaavaath .
were it not for the synchronised perpetual                 dynamic
   unmanifest state.

Meaning: Investigating the triad of interactive stresses confirms
that such interactive modes of stresses exist but it would not
have been detectable, had it not been for the existence of the
coherent - perpetual - dynamic - unmanifest state of its existence
(of the substratum).
Explanation:. Only a change can be detected and an interaction
between components or objects causes a change that can be
observed. An interaction that is not observable or detectable
causes a stress. A resonant interaction continues endlessly if it is
balanced. If an interaction is obstructed then the reactions from it
accumulate at that point. A stress is caused if there is a lack of
freedom to balance out or equalise immediately. stresses
accumalates as a pressure or force if there is no way to release it.
Du:khatraya: Du:kha is stress (See Comparison Of
Sankhyakarika Translations in the Appendix), in this context.
Interactions cause collisions or colliding states which normally
implies the existence of a velocity component prior to an impact.
But in a sea of components forming a continuum such a free
movement would not be possible but the pressure of contacting
or interacting with adjacent units would create stresses and these
could be inward or compressive or outward and expansive or just
an in between resonant shuttling state. These three variations in
144
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
an interaction take place cyclically in such an ocean of identical
components, whatever these might be. These interactive stresses
are stored over a period of time, released periodicaly or
immediately. These three aspects form the 3 modes of
accounting the state of stress over a time period. The definition
of the three Gunas refer to these states of stresses as
Du:khatraya.
Three modes of interactive stresses are described in Suthras 11 to
14 as the Three Gunas. One of the meanings of Guna is ‘a
bowstring’ signifying a tensor or vector aspect of a force, like the
taught tension in a resonant bowstring. Any interaction has three
characteristics like hard or inelastic collision, springy or elastic
reaction to an impact and a spongy or resonant shuttling phase.
The three modes of interaction are a natural or Swabhava type of
reaction to distributing of interactive cyclic time in a self similar
way.
Thaama Guna is compressive, dense and inelastic, Raja Guna is
resonant, shuttling and bonding and Sathwa Guna is expansive,
radiant and elastic, interactive states. The interactions being in a
confined or restricted space like a sea of identical components or
a field of elemental matter, the interactive changes can only take
place by exchanging the differing parameters in a simultaneous
process. Such a process is defined as a self-similar or Swabhava
type of interaction and defined in the respective Suthras. In
terms of cyclic time it must be considered an instantaneous
process or action within the smallest cyclic period. Hence
expansive, compressive or resonant activities caused by an
interaction will be proportional to the logarithmic or
multiplicative product of the interactive parameters. Taking C as
cyclic rate of oscillation or vibration and x as rate of change per
cycle then the three Guna self similar interactive states are
shown as vibratory counts per cycle by the formula .
Equation S.1

Thaama = C1+x . Raja = Cx+x . Sathwa = C1-x .

145
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The above values are logically derived numerically in their
respective Suthras. Then the meaning of Suthra 1 is that these
three forms of interactive stress could only exist if the
substratum or field of components in space had the following
four qualities namely Aikaantha, Aathyanta, Atho and Abhavath,
as being synchronised , perpetual, dynamic but an unmanifest
state of existence. These states are analysed and its axiomatic
values derived below. The diagram below will clarify the
concept The


                    Fig: The Guna Diagram.
dot represents the stored stresses in the Thaama compressive,
dense, coherent and stable state of Aikaantha. The double arrow
head shows the periodically released Raja interactive, resonant ,
stationary but transmigratory state of Aathyantha. The long
single ended arrow shows the ‘iinstantly’ released Sathwa
expansive, radiant and mobile state of Atho The single arrow
indicates that counts along two axis are synchronised. When
counts along 3 axis synchronise perfectly in Thaama state then
both the double and single arrows turn inwards or ‘dissappear’.
Then space becomes unmanifest and undetectable state of
Abhaavath and the Universe remains in the Aikaantha state.
Therefore space the fundamental reality can be in only one state
of Aikantha the coherent state of three dimensional or cubic
resonances. Movement needs the fourth power.
Aikaantha: It is a sunchronised or coherent singular state where
all components act simultaneously as a single entity in the
Thaama state shown as the dot. This can comprise activity in
both forms where relative movement between interacting
components may or may not exist. That is, relative activity may
all proceed together or may be in a sequential form within the
cycle. As an example, ten people can clap periodically either
simultaneously or sequentially. Though the ten simultaneous
claps will be counted as one, it still contains the ten claps. Only
the degree of non-synchronisation will allow one to differentiate
146
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
between the ten different claps. Hence all the interactions can
remain together in the same relative relationship of a frozen form
or move relative to each other in a cyclic period of movement
and yet remain a singular entity. Hence Aikaantha has two
mathematically limiting values depending on its state of internal
relative movement
Assuming there are n components then the maximum number of
possible interactive states must be N / 1. Comparing the
relationship with smallest possible value of an isolated
component of one unit, the number of possible interactive states
become       N-1 and the incremental ratio of a change,
simultaneously or instantly, becomes F2 = (1+(1/(N-1))N-1 (as
simultaneous interactions are logarithmic): As N approaches
infinity F2 equals the base of the natural logarithm e in modern
terms. If all possible interactions are carried out n-1 times
simultaneously then it will approach the value of e or F2 .Here
the logarithmic sum of the incremental value and its ratio reach
an asymptotic or limiting value of a transcendental number..
Equation. S.1A.
                      N   1                   N   1
              N                       1
    e                         1                       2.7182818285
          N       1               N       1

Hence the larger the number of interactive components or larger
the relative volume acting as a single unit, it will always tend to
equal 2.718 or e at the maximum rate of simultaneous or ‘within
a cycle’ or instant period of interactive changes or counts. Any
count of an interaction can be obtained only after the completion
of the cycle and therefore the unit count per unit cycle is a
relative instant. Aikaantha is an axiomatic state that shows the
substratum of space will always remain in this singular or frozen
state of dynamic interaction when unhindered.
The next possible variation is a relative cyclic-period difference
between the interactive components which can result in a
‘rotary’ or cyclic periodic movement of the interactive stress
147
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
forms or oscillatory waveforms. Mainly, Suthras 24, 30, 52 and
55 lead to the derivation of the counts in a cyclic period. Here
the interactive forms, despite a relative movement, must remain
in the same location to fulfil the condition of Aikaantha or
singular or unitary state. The reason is that in any confined
plenum or a sea of components or a vast field of matter, where
there is no possibility of an external intervention or far from the
boundary of influence, interactive exchanges can take place only
by a process of simultaneous exchange of required parameters
from within itself. This law of Swabhava or self-similarity leads
to a unique ratio that defines the value of a cycle as 10, if the
Aikaantha state is to be ensured. Axiomatically the rate of
variation in cyclic time between any two identical interacting
components has to be 1 to 2 as shown in FM3: Problems on
vectors etc were solved by variant methods called triangulation
long before the Greeks.
Equation. S.1 B.


                                       ½


                            1
Solving the cyclic period-difference or ratio by triangulation
works out to x as the golden mean:
Equation. S.1 C.

                      1   22    1
                                    = 0.618034
                          2

If x is halved and triangulated, and the difference is again halved
and triangulated iteratively and the result multiplied by the
Equation S.1 D.


148
      Secret Of Sankhya:                     2
                         Acme Of Scientific Unification .
                x
            A0                         1   1   Ai 2       Ai 2
                     2 A
                           i   1               2
        Ai 1. 2 i. 2

       0.314139
       0.314154
       0.314158
powers of two raised by the same number of iterations, as
       0.314159
follows, then formula is shown as F4. The relationship to the
current value of π has been brought in as proof to show that the
cycle is indeed of ten counts, which value is derived further
below through other axioms.
It proves once again even an interaction with a relative cyclic
period difference will remain in the same singular or stationary
position of the Aikaantha state because the sum of all the
interactions within the cycle only add up to π /10, provided the
initial displacement is x or x/2. Even though any interaction is
always directed in the line of action, the relative direction
between two axis change with a variatio in rate of interaction
between two axis. It has an important significance. Regardless of
the rate of interactive counts per cycle the interactive stress
forms (waveforms) will follow a circular path and complete the
circular cycle only after 10 sequential interactions but yet remain
in the Aikaantha state as shown mathematically.
Axiomatically there can be only three modes of interaction as
derived in the Guna Suthras. Then these three modes can act
simultaneously or sequentialy. The permution combinations
shown below indicate only 10 possible states as shown below:




        1        2     3           4   5   6   7      8   9      10
149
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




            Fig: Axiomatic Cyclic Limit Of 10 Counts.
It is highly indicative that the observed complication is because
the three modes of an interaction are directly related to the
direction of the 3 axis. The solid arrows mark the original inward
state and the dashed ones radiate. The closed triangle show the
simultaneous dense Thaama state while the radiating arrows
show the radiant Sathwa mode. The mix of dashed and solid
arrows indicate the number of axis that is not synchronised with
the original state. It shows 10 distinct combinatorial states. Three
counts for the closed triangle with 3 axis converged , another
three counts for the 3 axis in radiant mode totalling 6 ways. Then
there are four additional variants of inward & outward going
combinations of parallel and antiparallel combinations. Two axis
synchronise perfectly to reduce the interactive counts
logarithmically when the value of a count is less than 1 / C1+x =
5e-13 . Or about a femtosecond differentiates the synchronised
from the non synchronised state as identified in Suthra 32 as a
bonding action. Similarlry 1/C1-x defines desynchronisation is
complete and leaving 1/(Cx )2 as the period in which the bonding
or resonant or coupled state can exist. These three parameters
have a fundamental identity in Physics and is shown in the
axiomatic derivation section.
The essential point to note is that the tranfer of interactive
parameters can act only along one axis albeit it may be
bothways, within the duration of such activity. Sequences 1,2,3
& 4 and 7,8,9 &10 transfer the effects only through 5 and 6. In a
confined region the 1 to 4 states represents the ingoing, centered
and highly compressive states symbolised by the closed
triangular set of arrows. Whereas the 7 to 10 are expansive being
free to act outward again symbolically as an opened oot set of
three arrows. However the constraint is at the interface of the
150
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
transition state at 4 and 7. . The outgoing three axis to be
constrained to act inward in a confined way through a double
axis path of 5 and 6 that acts as a single channel by
synchroniseng. Because of these two axiomatic and
transcendental ratios of ‘e’ and ‘ π ’, any interaction between
identical components in a confined or region bounded by other
similar components, will remain in the Aikaantha state and only
transmit the stresses in a transmigratory mode following the 3
Guna interactive characteristics. Axiomatically and logically the
components cannot move away relative to another unless there
was freedom to move.
Since the substratum is a sea of identical components, there is no
freedom to move along any axial direction. Hence the Aikaantha
state is maintained by two values of e and π /10 as a ratio. It
causes the stress values to build up to a constant limiting value.
Since the interactive reactions follow laws of self similar action,
it can also be expressed as an infinite power series. The
accumulated stress provides the potential to respond instantly to
any change caused by an unbalanced interaction. It causes
interactions to take place simultaneously. Mathematically
defined as a coherent state, because space wise it oscillates
symmetrically at the same nodal positions and cycle (or period)
wise it is in synchronous step with previous cycles and forms the
background state. It is a state in which all the components in the
substratum oscillate periodically in locked step or timing. Hence
it is an undetectable state as only a change from a standard state
can be detected in relation to it. It is a self similar &
synchronised state and is always in a balanced state . The self
similar fraction x and its internal division adds up to one with
increasing powers of x (representing fraction of unitary cycle) to
any level.

Equation. S. 1.E.
                          xn = 1.618034
                      n
151
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Though an Aikaantha state is depicted as a stationary state with a
unitary value because of its coherent, synchronised and
simultaneous behaviour, it can still be described numerically by
the above equation to any level of accuracy. If one state can be
identified as having a real relevance with a value of x n then the
spectrum of possible states that have a relative harmonic or
proportional connection can be identified within the unitary
Aikaantha state. Since it remains in a stationary position and
symmetrical state it cannot rotate or change its orientation
relative to any point of reference.
It is an extraordinary state wherein all the stable states exist
simultaneously and harmoniously all the time. It is a dynamic
state that maintains the same stable conditions at the same
positions all the time. It is a symmetrical state that maintains it
symmetry all the time. It contains the same set of coherent
vibrations in every location or point. As an example if an
extremely small section can be broken off, it will contain all the
coherent oscillatory combinations in this infinitesimal section
from which the original information can be regained. It is a
holographic state, described as an Andhatamishra state in
Sanskrit or the equivalent of a tiny blackhole state.
Coherent states have identical conditions in a self similar and
scale invariant mode everywhere simultaneously and also act in
the same way. It is similar to a linear harmonic standing wave
but in a 3 dimensional substratum. It is a cubical or spherical 3
dimensional harmonic wave functioning in an internal breathing
mode where only the logarithmic index of the potential, changes
or flips one up or one down to maintain a null difference
between any adjacent state, periodically. The breathing mode
changes the potential level by increasing or decreasing the power
index by one unit and two adjacent levels cannot have an index
level difference greater than 1. As an example:
Equation. S.1 F.
                  n       6       (1    x) n . xn = 1
     6
152x     6. x7   15. x8       20. x9   15. x10   6 . x11   x12 = 1
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

 The internal shift of balance is a logarithmic value of one but it
implies a simultaneous change of 10 units or a cycle. Hence
internal changes can be simply identified by the logarithmic
index as cyclic changes. Stresses internally tunnel or avalanche
by changing the index values by one which means a shift of 10
counts as a simultaneous cycle. Such phase changes are beyond
detection.
The individual state of components being identical to each other
in every way and in a state of total internal freedom, vibrate in
every possible mode and transmit and share these interactive
oscillations in such a way that the locations of identical stress
count values fall into regions of nested cubes (or spheres) in
every cycle or period that constitutes the instant or duration of
activity. It’s speciality is that all variations are registered as a
change in the static potential resulting in a phase or
synchronisation difference and not by a change in linear velocity
or its local position. It would seem to be devoid of motion but
that is because the entire activity is due to the superpositioning
of vibrations in the same location. It is a vertical increment in
potential or decrease in the oscillatory-cycle interval as opposed
to a horizontal activity like linear velocity. It is explained in
Suthras 40 and 41.
Each axis has two oscillatory states with a periodic relationship
of 1 and 2 or cyclic relationship of one and half, that would
allow the nodes or turning points to maintain the same locations
at the same cyclic rate of two. The incremental rate needed to
maintain an expanded oscillatory cycle is (2 3 = 8) – 1 = 7. The
true Aikaantha state that remains isolated yet its sum remains
1/7, that ensures the spectral characteristics of Sathwic
phenomeon. FM7 lays the foundation for the Purusha state.

Equation.S.1 G.
              1 N                      1
                    = 0.1428571429         = 0.1428571429
              23                       7
         N
153
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

The internal cycle is maintained by superposing according to the
x series. The internal division can be extended to any level
(FM5) and the coefficients in this series, similar to those in the
binomial theorem , forms a Pascal triangle. Shown in the
axiomatic derivation section)
Aathyantha. It represents a state of endless activity or perpetual
dynamism or interactions without end. Any cyclic time period
will not end or cannot come to a stop because of the other three
factors. In order to theoretically justify cyclic time periods of an
eternal nature the axiomatic factor that would provide for this
quality must be identified as a quality inherent in the substratum
of space. If this quality does not exist then it becomes a certainty
for one to predict the end of dynamism and state of non-
existence. The existence of the Aathyantha can predict the
continuation of dynamism which naturally leads to sequential or
repetitive state of cyclic action.
It is a perpetually interactive state. It is cyclic, synchronised, in-
step, recurrent and never reaches a limit that stops the interactive
process. The first of three formulas shows that even if a
polarisation factor x is summed up to infinite powers of index
and for infinite time-duration the maximum potential will not
exceed the kinetic or basic potential by more than 1+x or the rate
of expansion cannot go beyond the power of 1+x. Therefore the
self similar superpositioning count at any one location cannot
exceed C1+x at a single level and will be shown to be the Bhava /
Ahankar value of a charge, in Suthra 32. It signifies a self
induced assymetry in time that maintains the oscillatory state.
Any cyclic interaction of 10 counts of one component with
another similar one gives an instantaneous product of 100=102
counts and the maximum delay of a count in each direction of
oscillation provides a total of 2 counts in 100 per cycle.
Assuming that this delay continues ad infinitum as an endless
series, then the uncertainty in an interactive count cannot exceed
this count or stating it differently the cycle may be extended by
this factor to bring about a balance in a free state at any.
154
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Equation. S.1.H.

          100           2     1
                                  2     2
                                            2     N
 RS                 1                                 1.0204081633
        100     2       100       100       100
displacement level. The value of RS is the natural or axiomatic
delay in which the oscillations decay and remain snchronous.
The two parameters e and π /10 ,ensuring the Aikaantha state,
have the quality of endless dynamism built into its derivation.
The ultimate value of e is a constant, reachable only at an infinite
rate of interaction.. Similarly π /10 is a transcendental number
that tends to reach a constant limit at an infinite rate of
interaction. Even then it only ensures the ‘circularity’ of the
cyclic time variation thus ensuring a centering action.At its
higher orders of interactive state, it remains centred or seems
‘static’. The two other states of Atho and Abhavath too must
ensure the perpetual characteristics needed to sustain the cyclic
state. The ratios of continued resonance and continued expansion
in the two modes of simultaneous and sequential activity must be
analysed and the appropriate factors derived. But before
demonstrating how both these aspects of the field space support
it, such parameters must be derived .
Atho. It is the non-symmetric space-like displacement and non
synchronous cycle ( or period ) characteristics in the, resonant
oscillatory background state that forms the dynamic base for all
phenomenon. It motivates manifestation of phenomenon and as
it is a state that exposes change, it can become detectable. Any
incremental displacement at the elemental level has to be 2 as in
EP3 But the spatial volumetric incremental relationship varies by
7 in relation to the first one (23 = 8 – 1) = 7 counts. Similarly
doubling the radius provides 7 equal incremental spherical
nested volumetric units. See diagram.




155
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




                  Fig: Doubling Spectrum By 7.

The rings expand radially as the cube root of 2 to 8. The cubic
space too can expand by the same mode if synchronised on all 3
axis. The additive mode is shown with the blue cube as the
primary unit. Equal oscillatory displacements in equal time
periods produce a balanced state. However, here an interactive
state is established wherein there is an inherent inequality either
in nodal numbers, distance or time period between any two axis
at right angles. Suthra 21 picturesquely describes the above
oscillatory state as the dependant association between a blind
man and his lame companion helping each other to get out of a
pit that symbolises the potential well. A mathematical analysis of
the very first vector state of a 1 by 2 gradient leads to some
special features.
The term signifies movement or dynamic characteristics. When
an interaction from an external source provides an impetus or
motive force to move then such movement is temporary or it
comes to a halt on the termination of that activity potential. But
the definition of the substratum is associated with a fundamental
state that is not dependant on external inputs and must
necessarily provide such characteristics on its own or from its
internal state.
. Abhaavath: It is the unmanifest interactive state that does not
exceed the maximum potential, or expansion / contraction
parameters. It implies that all interactions are contained
internally in a balanced and synchronised state. It is a state where
in all the dynamic parameters baalnce and equalise to retain the
coherent state, perpetually and eternally. The Abhaavath state is
a coherent, synchronised, simultaneous and symmetric
interactive state where all exchanges are carried out internally.
156
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The exchanges involve stress transmigratory actions that do not
involve any displacements. The nett cyclic exchanges result in
zero relative displacement which ensures the maintainence of an
unmanifest or undetectable state. The following mathematical
expression symbolises and defines the unmanifest Abhavath
state.
Equation. S.1 I
        π = 3.1415926536          RS = 1.0204081633
        e = 2.7182818285           π . x . 10
                                              1
                                   e RS 7
        x = 0.6180339887
The ratio e/ π represents the Thaamasic coherent state of
simultaneity where all interactions act internally as a single unit.
The e factor FM2 is a simultaneous count within a cycle and
hence treated logarithmic mathematically. The π factor
(derivation shown in FM4) represents the sequential interactive
state within the Thaamasic domain. The ratio x / RS (FM,5,6,7)
stands for the Raja resonant state of interaction that remains
within a bounded region. The expansive logarithmic factor 1/x
=1+x symbolising the equality of the interactive cycle in both
the simultaneous and sequential increments. It is the starting
point for all interactions that externalise .The 10 is the
simultaneous counts involved in an interaction that has each unit
proportional to x/2 , the axiomatic self similar ratio to maintain
an interactive state perpetually. While 7           represents the
sequential increment when an interactive period doubles. These
form the principle rules to contain the Guna modes of
interactions. All these factors are transcendental numbers thus
ensuring their usage to Athyantha or unlimited number of
interactive states.
The Abhavaath state is shown as a balanced interaction where
the left and right side are perfectly equal and prevents any stress
transmigratory states that could give rise to radiant and therefore
manifest states. The expressions shown below define the
157
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Abhavaath state as a zero difference in count during an
interaction. The transcendantal numbers forming the ratio of
simultaneous Thamaasic states being equal to the rato of Sathwic
sequential states.
Equation. S.1.J.



The ratio of the Thaamasic Purusha spectrum is exactly equal to
the Sathwic Moolalaprakrithi spectrum.
Equation. S.1. K.




Summarising the Logic. :The Sankhya view that evolves out of
the complete theory is that only vibrations are detected by the
observer and all manifested phenomenon are aggregates or
collective states of such vibrations on a fundamental base.
Vibrations are actions and logically it must be caused by
fundamental objects or components. Since only relative changes
canbe be detected , any fundamental component that is not in a
vibratory state cannot be detected. Vibrations are caused by
components in an interactive state or a cyclic state of colliding
and separating that is common to all interactions and wave
phenomenon. The interactions create three distinct modes of
stresses. Collisions are compressive or inelastic. The resultant
reaction is expansive or elastic. When the interacting
components lack the freedom to move away the interactive state
is maintained in a cyclic or shuttling mode in the same location
in a resonant state. Vibrations can be measured if it has an
oscillatory amplitude or displacement or a to and fro movement
but if there is no space to move the vibratory action creates
stresses or pressures. Such stresses transmigrate across the
components in the three modes described earlier. This important
Suthra lays emphasis that if the observed process of detection is
158
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
dependant on vibrations, then fundamental space must contain
components with those four characteristics described as states,
which makes it function in a holographic way. That is all
vibrations remain in fixed relationship relative to each vibratory
point in a coherent and resonant state.
  The axiomatic logic is that if vibrations are caused by
interactions then the interactions itself can only be between
objects, what ever these might be. The objects need not be
defined as it only forms background. Since only vibrational
counts of interactions are measured and compared dimensional
definitions too are not needee. The following Suthras provide
logically concatenating proof to show that manifestation is a
holographic phenomenon. The Sankhya Suthras derive an
unified theory that is self-similar, scale invariant, perpetual, self-
organising, self starting and clock-time independent. The same
laws apply in evaluating the galaxy, sun, planets, protons,
electrons etc. The distance always varies with cyclic interactive
period keeping C the perpetual oscillatory rate constant. And that
is an axiomatic rate due to the action of vectors at the
fundamental level. Therefor, the examples chosen remain in the
realm of particle and atomic physics just as a matter of
convenience.




159
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                            Suthra 2.
The qualities of the substratum.

dhrishtavadhaanushravik:
detection process-standard or traditional
sahyavishudhikshayaathishayayuktha: .
certainly-distorted-attenuated-poor-resolution.
thadhviparithah: shreyaan
hence-alternative      appropriate
vyakthaavyakthajnaavijnaanaath.
manifest-unmanifest-coherent-kinetic-potential

Meaning: Standard methods of evaluation through detection are
affected by distortion, attenuation and inferior resolution to
details; but an alternate method that is totally satisfactory, is
based on the principle of discriminating the basic and dynamic
substratum into its appropriate components of the unmanifest,
manifest, the self-potential and kinetic or dynamic potential.
Explanation: The terms Aikaantha and Aathyantha logically
leads to the concept of the manifest and unmanifest and Atho
and Abhaavaath to the differentiation of the dynamic state itself
into an active kinetic state and a static potential phase. Suthra 1
established that all interactions in the substratum were coherent,
balanced and internally contained.
The logic behind this suthra is difficult to comprehend. The
concept of vector forces from polarisation is brought out through
Guna logic in this suthra. Holistic analysis shows that detecting
an object depends on the emanation put out from it; hence it can
exist and yet not be detected because there is no emanation from
it. If an object is detected at all it must be because of the
emanation it puts out. Any information interpreted correctly
constitutes intelligence. Information, that is not detectable, exists
in a potential or static form. But when detected this information
or signal or intelligence has to be in a state of relative movement,
160
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
which is a kinetic potential. Traditionally, knowledge or
information is communicated through the senses, primarily sight
             Jna or Potential Or Coherence
             Vertical stack or Simultaneous



                   Vyaktha or Manifest or countable
                   Detectable or time varying


                                              Vijnaan or
                                              Kinetic or
                                              Migrating
                                              Movement
                                              Sequential

   Avayaktha or unmanifest
   or static or hidden or top view
   of vertical stack not countable

                   Fig: Discriminative Ability
and sound channels. Such an information process may be
affected by adverse conditions and the knowledge so gained
may suffer from distortion, attenuation and poor resolution. Like
sight and sound are communicated by the respective forms of
vibrations and distortion can be recognised when these are found
to be different from the original. Weak or attenuated light and
sound makes it difficult to understand the perceived or heard
results. Poor resolution is when the grades of colour or tone
cannot be differentiated. All or any of the defects shown above
may exist in the source of the information or the process of
communication or in the recipient. It applies to instrumented
systems as well, for the human sensory organs are considered to
be natural instruments following the same principles of
phenomenal behaviour.

161
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Then how can one know when the knowledge so received is
correct and can be relied on? Maharishi Kapila enunciated a
method which enabled man to verify and ascertain the
correctness of knowledge gained by himself and is based on the
very first and fundamental set of principles that govern all the
phenomenon experienced by man. The phenomenon may be
manifest or detectable, or it may be unmanifest and therefore
undetectable. Since phenomenon is dynamic the potential that
causes it must be a part of the principle and the variations, (in the
phenomenon) being the result of differences in potential. It
conveys to the observer information or intelligence or knowledge
of the process through its variations. Fig: 8 Clarifies the
concepts.
  If man can gain the ability to discriminate between these
varations at the fundamental level where it operates, then he can
be certain of the validity of the acquired information. Because by
comparing and evaluating he can therefore comprehend the
subtlest change. Why is phenomenon manifest or unmanifest (or
detectable & undetectable) at the fundamental level? There is
only one reason; and that is the ability or inability to detect the
time-interval or duration of phenomenon Or the ability to
discriminate at the finest or subtlest level can confirm the
existence of the changes at the fundamental level.. As logically
derived earlier, the components of the substratum are in only one
singular state of – dynamic existence. If the movements or
motion or oscillations synchronise, that is the time difference
between vibrating components reduces towards what the
observer considers to be zero or too small to detect, the
phenomenon seems to be static, inert etc. And such a time
duration becomes his instant and a measurement yardstick
against which all subsequent measurements can be made
meaningfully. In fact that undetectable interval is the primary or
first differential or the first unit of time interval , against which
further measurements can be made.
Being unobservable, it unfortunately cannot used as a unit of
comparison, as it has been pointed out that the ability to measure
162
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
depends on an observable relative difference. However the next
incremental unit must be detectable and that is at a level or
measure of two units. Hence logically an absolutely important
dictum, rule, law or principle is established that at the
fundamental (unit) level, detection is not possible and that
whatever phenomenon is detected or measured it must be of two
or more units. (this is the basis of the advaita & dvaita concept;
that is manifestation if detected, is always two (dvaita), dualistic
or pluralistic in nature or the very process of detection requires a
relational or relative background of more than one. Stating it in a
negative terminology of not two (advaita) therefore means one.
Another important factor emerges when any change takes place
in a dynamic substratum. Since the observer detects
manifestation only due to time delay, then considering the
undetectable time ratio of the substratum as " one upon one", the
very next delayed ratio has to be "one upon two" due to an
increase of the first unit against the apparently static background
of the substratum. Therefore the first unitary change must
produce the second unit, which can now be detected against the
monotonous or unitary background state. One is an absolute
number signifying the smallest digit (not zero) that is real and is
a relational set or a fraction with both numerator and
denominator having the same values. When the numerator has a
value different from the denominator, the number set becomes a
fraction or a ratio or a gradient wherein the static and dynamic
states differ in value, of the same type of units,( be it dimensions
or time) or the synchronised state is lost.
The manifest and the unmanifest phenomenon is governed by the
quality or effect of synchronisation. If a phenomenon or any
element of manifestation is synchronised with the fundamental
substratum (equal components) then the phenomenon does not
manifest itself to the observer or it cannot be detected because
the difference in time or movement is too small (less than a unit)
to detect but the potential or motivation causing the undetectable
activity is present (it exists) so it is a potential in a static form but
unmanifest. When it is detected, it is because the time or
163
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
displacement is large enough for the observer to detect but
because it is detected as a relative movement it is now called a
kinetic force or dynamic potential and is manifested. At this
stage, if it synchronises with another similar phenomenon it is
considered an integral part of the manifested phenomenon or an
agglomerate in a simultaneous mode of action.
The non-synchronised aspects are the dynamic (kinetic) part of
any manifested phenomenon and it is this last aspect that is
normally called a phenomenon by the non-discriminating
observer. Therefore a very important principle is evolved from
the above: If the human observer seeks to detect the subtlest,
smallest, quickest, weakest of phenomenon in his thinking
environment then he must (repeat must) attain the synchronised
or coherent state with the substratum, (of his cerebral system)
because then and only then can he detect or be aware of the
nascent change at its very source or starting point. Does it mean
that when detection of phenomenon is not possible man's ability
to acquire knowledge and understanding of nature is stopped?
Then his intellectual capacity to theorise in the abstract and
evolve principles through rigorous logic must come into effect
and only then can he complete the process of understanding
nature totally
Even a minute change can be easily detected against a static
background and such a synchronised (static) state of the mental
environment can be achieved as indicated earlier by a simple
process of being stress free; by not initiating any mental or other
activity; by being passive; going with the tide of self-generated
thought by neither pursuing nor obstructing it but by giving in
and allowing it to take place for thought itself is an inherent
activity of the fundamental field; a passive attitude of
acceptance; a relaxed state of ease and comfort; a state of
contentment that inhibits the generation of a motive to initiate
activity ; a no-want state; a state where-in one has positively
renounced the initiative to generate an act in thought, word and
deed. The above is a state of harmony, synchrony and is an
absolutely static or synchronised condition relative to the
164
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
fundamental field. It is the Aikaantha-Aathyantha-Atho-
Abhaavaath or self-similar, frictionless, unhindered (kaivalya),
relatively static state of resonance. If from such a state, the most
complex and subtlest form of mental inquiry is initiated then it
has the best chance of generating a correct and appropriate
solution. Suthra 4,5 and 6 define the parameters to mentally
understand phenomenon. The process is detailed out in
Appendix The Siddhi Meditative Process .




165
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 3.
Axiomatic 3 dimensional wave fundamentals of substratum.

Moolaprakrithiravikrithirmahadhaadhhyah:
root-oscillatory-coherent-harmonic-intense-primary
prakrithyvikrithyah: saptha .
fundamental-harmonics seven
shodasakastuvikaaro
sixteenth-approaching-radiation -
naprakrithir      na vikrithih purushah:.
neither-oscillatory nor-harmonics nuclear core

Meaning: The fundamental resonant oscillatory state is
synchronised, coherent, resonant and stable; the first interactive
oscillatory state is of maximum intensity of accleration; then
there are seven levels of coherent, harmonic and oscillatory
interactive stages followed by an expanding radiation above a
sixteenth order of the fundamental value; the nuclear core is
neither oscillatory nor harmonically interactive.

Explanation : The fundamentals of three dimensional wave
theory is defined in an axiomatic way. Oscillatory states are
based on relational values. The ratio of a harmonic or
synchronous vibratory state begins at half or two. Synchronous
oscillations in step along all three axis will vary according to the
volumetric value of vibratory counts. Since the counts are
superposed or in- step or in-phase with each other it is described
as a coherent state or Prakrithi state. If it loses its in-step or in-
phase phase but the number of oscillatory counts per cycle
remains the same it is in a harmonic or Vikrithi state. When it
loses even the harmonic state it is a freely moving or Vikaro
state of expansion, radiation or acceleration. The change from
one state to another is conditioned by axiomatic ratios. If the
coherent, volumetric state is one unit, then a change to 2 will
require an incremental ratio of 21/3 . The difference between the
166
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
two will then be 1.259921-1= .259921. On the other hand if the
value of on side of a cubical unit is one then a change to 2 will
result in a volumetric ratio increase of 23=8 and the difference as
8-1=7. These ratios can be used used as relative units in a
flexible way. Hence Prakrithi Vikrithi states increase by 7 when
the radial dimension doubles. The change to a Vikaro state
requires the 23=8 counts double and that is 24=16, as explained in
detail in Suthra 30.
Moolaprakrithi.(definition). The concept is that space consists
of numerous elemental components. The components, described
as representing a cube to maintain conceptual simplicity and
axiomatic rigour, populate all space. Being free and numerous,
all the elemental cubes interact with each other in Swabhava or
self similar Guna modes as detailed in Suthras 11 to 14. The
degree of separation from each other defines the interactive
parameters. Eight adjacent cubes can define the small cubic
space that identifies the interactive interval or gap in the central
location where the eight corners of the cubes can meet .




                 Fig: The Moolaprakriti Concept.

167
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
It is shown as the red cube in the diagram and displays the cubic
form maintained by the 8 vibrating larger blue cubes. That red
cube can be described in terms of interactive counts of
vibrations in a cyclic-perod, assuming that all the eight blue
cubes interact in the same location. The size of the red cube has a
specific numerical relationship to the larger cube. It can be
numerically related in powers of 2 or 2N or (23)N = 8N etc. The
larger blue cube can now be considered as just the combination
of the the smaller sized red cubes. The collection of red cubes act
as a blue cube by vibrating together as a coherent synchronous,
group displaying the quality of Thaamasic simultaneous activity
If the coherent and synchronised state of interacting or vibrating
together simultaneously is disrupted then that position produces
the effect of the red cube. It is a cube vibrating out of step or
synchrony. It is a cube that does not remain in the same state or
location as the rest and displays a different condition. It is the
fundamental condition of commencement of activity called
Moolaprakrithi. Moolaprakrarithi the red cube is not a cube but a
state of a cube in an active state or a state different from the rest.
It is a vibrating form that exists unly because other vibrating
cubes exist and is a holographic form. The meeting point of three
axis shares a single point which in reality is cubic point. It is the
fundamental concept of an unit of charge in Physics. Purusha.
(definition). An important change of condition takes place at this
interactive interface. The impact between two cubes can result in
3 states of interactive reactions as defined in the Guna Suthras.
These are instantaneous separation on impact as an inelastic
reaction of the Sathwa state. Or it may elastically vibrate and
remain in a resonant Raja state.




168      Thaama.                Raja                      Satwa
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




           Fig: Moolaprakrithi To Purusha Transition




           Purusha As Number Of Moolaprakrithis.

           Fig: The Purusha Moolaprakrithi Formations
Finally it may combine together to attain a uniform, singular,
synchronous and coherent state of activity as one larger cube in
the Thaama state shown in the diagram. The Sathwa state shows
the radiation of a set of Moolaprakrithis as Vrithis (coherent
particle states)) on sudden or inelastic collision. The Raja state
shows the resonant harmony of two sets of Moolaprakrithis
interacting simultaneosly at the same rate as a bound state. The
Thaama state shows the absorption of two sets of
Moolaprakrithis in a higher state of activity as a superposing,
compressing,or denser states.
If the red cube Moolaprakrithi is considered the elemental
unitary state then larger cubes can be created as multiples of it as
vibrant but coherent unitary states The Moolaprakrithi is a cube
of space in a vibratory state and the non vibratory state of this
same unit of space cannot remain in that size because of the
axiomatic nature of a Guna interactions. Hence the elemental
components in space combine, aglomerate, or join together as a
larger, self-limiting unit of space, only which can remain static
or coherent or passive or unmanifest etc. There is a single Guna
law that acts in identical ways at every agglomerate level of
phenomenon At each level there is the same proportionate limits
169
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of maximum and ninimum interactive counts but the form and
size may vary to attain balance at each level.
Saying it another way perpetual self similar oscillatory activity
comes to a stop naturally only at the Purusha level. Hence it is
called the Andhathaamshra or dark and dense state of
supereposed vibrations in space. The Guna principles explain
why and how this has to be so due to axiomatic reasons. When
the oscillatory state becomes undetecable by superpositioning of
counts communication with that state is cut off and becomes an
isolated blackhole state. Suthra ww shows that at 1/(5x10 13) the
ability to discriminate the interval between interactive counts
dissappears and it superposes on the previous count. It is the
blackhole state in Physics. Therefore every unit of quiescent ,
apparently static, barely resonant and unmanifest unit of space is
a Purusha, massive, blackhole, potential, state of dormant,
internal, stress transmigrational activity of the elemental
components in space. Conceptually, it behaves exactly like the
components deep in an ocean.
The natural drift of active states towards lower or reduced
activity levels is purely due to the action and reaction counts not
being cyclically equal. As an example if 20 interactions per cycle
(ipc) unit interacts with a 10 ipc unit, the 20 ipc will move in
towards the 10 ipc unit because for every 2 counts there is only
one reacting count to attain a balance of counts. This is the
fundamental cause of transmigration of counts between any two
different count rate states. It is also the only reason that all
identified forces in Physics, like gravity, electromagnetic, weak
and strong accelerate from a higher interactive count rate to a
lower one.        At the basic elemental level this drift of
Moolaprakrithy counts towards the Purusha coherent states is
observed as a gravitating phenomon. At intermediate levels this
type of migration of counts display the Linga/Bhaava and
Abiman/Ahankar changes in the Thaama-Raja-Sathwa Guna
characteristics which represent the strong, weak and
electromagnetic interactive spectrum Suthras 46 to 56 define the
entire spectrum from the Andhathaamishra blackhole state to the
170
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
fleetingly radiant Moolaprakrithi avalanche. At denser level
fields, in space, the vapour, fluid and solid phase change states
are caused by the Guna characteristics in exactly the same way,
where the interactions along the the three axial directions
syncronise, act in step as harmonics or merge in precise step.
Therefore the Galactic centre, the Sun, the planets, the hadronic
nuclear states like the neutron, proton electron and all such
forms that have a coherent internalised count state must seem to
attract non coherent ensembles. The precise axiomatic
mathematical reason for such transmigrating conditions are spelt
out in Suthras 24 and 52 for the changes in state at the Thaama
Raja (Quark-Hadron) and the Raja-Sathwa (Hadron-Lepton-
Neutrino) interface respectively. The bracketed terms are only a
broad indicator of the types of particulate forms, in a very
complex spectrum of phenomena
The logical conclusion from the derivation above is defined in
Suthra 62 .which declares that nothing is bound, released or
trnsferred except the vibratoty state. Expressing it in another
way, solid, fluid and radiant states are due to the three Guna
states in which interactive oscillations combine and remain as
ensembles acting simultaneously in groups. . It leads to certain
conceptual changes in the way manifestation can be perceived.
The vibrating cubic form in a synchronised and coherent state
represents a hologram like the Moolaprakrithi , except for the
number of interactive counts acting simultaneously. Lack of
dimensional classification does not detract from the
accountability of space in terms of the holographic cube because
both are of the same form in the same sea of components in
space. The concept of dimensionality becomes superfluous.
Assuming all cube components loose the freedom to interact,
then there can be no gap at all in which case the error ratio will
be the count relationship of one holographic cubic form of a
Moolaprakrithi state to the sum of all cube components in space.
This proof exists in the Suthra 68. It shows that if even one
holographic Moolaprakrithi cannot exist then all manifestation as
phenomenon must dissapear.
171
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The Prakrithi Vikrithi spectrum of seven levels. The Purusha
and the Moolaprakrithi form the limits of the coherent and
radiant states representing the Thama and Sathwa Guna states
respectively. In between lies the spectrum of transition states The
Prakrithi are the nodal or synchronous states that vibrate in
harmony with the fundamental level. When vibratory distances
or wavelengths expand by the same amount or double, the cubic
count value rises to 8 as 2 cubed. It increases by seven different
count rates. These are incremental states that exist as harmonics
at distinct levels. Every time a wavelength doubles the
incremental states rise by another 7 additional states with a
different scale level of vibrations. Since these are at distinct
harmonic levels, the spaces or wavelength in between these
nodes also have the Vikrithi vibratory states that do not
synchronise with the fundamental.
While the Prakrithi states remain in harmony and are detectable
as stable ensembles of vibratory states, the Vikrithi vibrations do
not exist as stable ensembles. Vikrithi states are not harmonic
and exist as a constantly and consistently changing state that may
harmonise momentarily with other states. While Prakrithi states
combine by harmony or synchronous-oscillations to display
higher density, mass, energy, force etc at specific locations or
intervals, the Vikrithi states display the changing states due to
non synchrony and non coherence. In Physics the Prakrithi states
depict the Thaamasic fermionic characteristics of spin-half
particles while the Vikrithi displays the Rajasic bosonic form of
spin-one particles. Though Sankhya does not refer to these
states as particles but as a mixture of the three Guna oscillatory
states of spatial components. The Vikrithi being the in between
discordant states of the same Prakrithi spectrum, it too has 7
additional levels of vibratory states with every doubling of a
distance or wavelength etc.although not a stable and detectable
spectrum. This spectrum creates transcendant, fleeting,
momentary, unspecified phenomena that are difficult to classify.
 Though the Moolaprakrithi in action is similar to the Vikrithi
state it cannot be termed as such because all other stable states
172
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
are axactly in step with it. Because every phenomenon is
described in terms of the Moolaprakrithi count value, there is no
need for dimensionality. Since it is the smallest possible state of
activity it forms the accurate unit of an Universal accounting
process.
All measurement or detection is in relation to the basic state.
Krithi is a cutting or sudden dividing action and gives the
vibrations or oscillations the quality of a square wave, not a
smooth or slowly changing quality like a sinewave variation at
the basic level. Interactions between inelastic objects can only
display a sharp cut off or period of separation. It implies a high
frequency or high vibratory rate per cycle and small or fine
displacement or wavelength. At the point of balance between
two different rates, the difference must be very small, both
displacement and rate wise. This point is identified in Suthra 32
that pinpoints fraction of a cyclic count rate at which two
interactive countrates are considered to be of identical value.
Avikrithi means a superpositioned state of oscillations of a basic
or fundamental rate and does not contain harmonics. Such a
condition implies that the superpositioning is carried out within
the cycle or the time factor is less than unity or the ratio of radial
displacement to velocity is less than one. The vibrations or
oscillations are contained within a boundary and are coherent;
that the rate is the same in all directions and the displacement of
the vibrating boundary is synchronised and acts in the breathing
mode and its centre of action remains stationary. It is not an
accelerative state. It is a three dimensionally harmonious state.
Its rate of vibrations forms the ground state and is maintained at
the same rate due to an axiomatic characteristic.
An oscillation that has an equal inward and outward period of
interaction or half of the total cycle. It remains stable and it
defines the Moolaprakrithi state. It is a standing wave and must
have time or displacement equal to ½ a cycle or distance. It is an
axiomatic state in which all parameters are self similar which is a
Swabhava state. It is not a detectable state as the nett
displacement is always zero. Therefore at the fundamental level
173
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
even though the Moolaprakrithi activity sustains the balance
there is no detectable reaction to measure or observe. Space
though full of activity does not display unbalanced reactions
below an identified and specified interval of a cycle.
The addition or combinations of oscillatory states follows
axiomatic rules, that is, a new state is created by joining with an
existing state, to expand acceleratively. The prakrithi or the
spectrum of oscillatory states, divides into avikrithi or harmonic
states that are stationery or have nodal and antinodal positions.
Nodal harmonics are integer dependant and all rates are integer
based but the ratio or gradient of a change are shown as
fractions. These states have 7 nodal levels for the following
reasons. The stable oscillatory state can change from its
fundamental state of 1 to 2 and in all three axis it equals 23 = 8
and subtracting the first or primary prakrithi state leaves 7 nodal
levels of harmonic states in a complete cycle of 8 nodal
combinations. Similarly internally the the sum of inward going
harmonics is 1/7 .
Therefore this Suthra lays down the algorithm for all future
relative measurements in a cycle. The seven levels are captive
and they cannot be separated in a spherically harmonius cycle
and it must be realised that any measurement must take
cognisance of this basic factor. The spectral density of seven
harmonic levels affects any change from one level to double that
level or an increase in ratio of 1 to 2. At the basic level it is of
the largest magnitude . The moolaprakrithi is stable and forms
the first internal level but the prakrithi – vikrithi polarisation to
the next level gets externalised but still remains stable for the
following reasons. The later Suthras will show that an interaction
on colliding or obstruction of the vibratory state, superpose or
add instantly or the output sum becomes a product of the two
values. When balance is attained by separating in a sequential or
periodic mode the value divides into equal halves or is additive.
If the division is not equal then there is movement of nodes
towards the lower value state. Any interaction is direction
dependant along any axis and any colliding action between the
174
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
vibrating components can increase the rate of change from 1 to 2
as 2 x 2 = 4 but the captive value of 7 +1 = 8 is still larger than 4
and the level of activity is not enough to radiate or move away.
The next level is reached when either one axis or a
synchronisation of 2 axis has nodal value of 4. Then an
interaction between two adjoining states will have a product of 4
x 4 = 16 which then can separate in equal distance or time cycle
of 8 + 8 = 16 and still remain balanced. When 16 is exceeded,
movement away from centre commences or the centre of action
drifts or radiation of vibrations takes place. The graphic
presentation makes it clear that in a count rate of 10 per cycle the
combination of increments yields 8+8=16 = 4 x 4. The
expression for adding incremental rates that can be stable or
divisible by 2 is (n x (n+1)) /2 . This method eliminates the
recount of a cube in two or three axis synchronisation and the
cube is the equivalent of a point in space or a node.




The stable combination = 1 + 3 =2 +2 = 22 =4
The unstable combination= 3 + 6 = 4.5 + 4.5 =32= 9
The expression (n2+n)) /2 provides stable combination.




            Fig: Aggregation Of Space Components.

175
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Taking a series of n that takes an external incremental unit, gives
the values of cunts as 1+2=3. 3+3=6. 6+4=10. 10+5=15.
15+6=21. 21+7=28. 28+8=36. 36+9=45. 45+10=55. etc
The combination 6+10 =16= 8+8 =42 is stable. When balanced it
is stable else there are stress currents in both direction that shift
the nodes. The left combinations are stable only at a gradient of
1 in 2. The combination of incremental harmonics can remain
stable if divisible by 2 to maintain the standing wave
relationship. The right side combine with similar states in a
coherent standing wave Prakrithi relationship. (The periodic
table in chemistry and the quark spectrum in particle physics
follows the same rule and details are shown in Suthras 46 to 50)
Vikaro (definition). Is the state of unsynchronised, unbalanced
or eccelerated activity and it commences from the 16th. nodal
level. The next level of expansion or increase in harmonics
occurs in the next cycle. The stable or fundamental or cohrerence
state described by cubic formulation can only be upset by an
interaction with another cubic form but the reaction from the
interaction polarises according to Guna laws. Hence the cubic
state of third power increases to the fourth power interactively to
launch the Vikaro accelerative or radiative process.
Purusha. Axiomatic derivation. The core Purusha position is in
a densely superpositioned state. It is kept in balance by the
moolaprakrithi activity. The standing wave nodal position is
maintained because of the reaction from the components
oscillating at the same stable background rate C.




             PRAKRITHI            VIKRITHI

            Fig: Prakrithi Vikrithi Nodes In Purusha.
176
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
But if it is less, then the nodes drift towards the core or centre to
attain a stable nodal position. The nodal spacing depends on the
maximum superpositioning density. Density along one axis is
shown. Equation.S.3.
           1
           3                                 1   x                                8
      k 2 cyclic_expansion 10                        sequential_expansion     k

               10 2                                           1 n
      RS                  1.02040816             EP7                   0.142857
                2                                                3
           10         2                                      2
                                                         n
                                       n         1   x   2
                               1           . 10    . 10     2
      Purusha Kx                                                     0.9149879388
                                   3             8        2
                               2               k       10
                           n

The Purusha node is a cubic point in reality. Suthra 30 defines it.




177
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

              Fig: The Purusha Andhathamishra Form
The Purusha combines both Prakrithi and Vikrthi to
harmonically remain in a coherent state. The stress due to
interactive density is maximum and the red square in figure 12
above shows it but its not to scale. Taking that point as a real
unit and dividing each side by two gives 8 units. Continuing it
endlessly results in extending the cyclic period of divisions as an
instantaneous or logarithmic sum within one cycle. The value is
arrived at FM7. While the first division gave the value as (1/2) 3 =
1/8 the EP7 shows an increase to 1/7. Applying the Guna rules of
simultaneous, sequential and resonant interactive states, results
in FM9 values.The conceptual shape of the Purusha Linga state
Kx in the Thaamasic state of coherent interaction is shown in
Fig: 14 The stress lines show the variation from the stage when
all the three axis synchronise to a point and gradually expand to
the Mahad Prakrithi Mps form. The Purusha state defined as the
sum and product of coherent activites is strictly a process of
dividing by 2. The proof that concept must be correct is given by
the sum of all the Vikrithi states. As defined before the Vikrithi
is the non synchronous state of the same number of vibrations at
the coherent nodes. FM11 gives the value called a Catalan in
mathematics. There is a very accurate reason for the small
difference between the Purusha Kx and the sum of Vikrith Vk
values. It is explained in the 68th Suthra, but the RS prakrith state
limits the Kx value to balance with all the other parameters.
Equation. S. 3.A.
                        2
                         2
                    1   2      2
         C 10                      2.9657596692. 108


                                    Kx
        Moolaprakrithi My                     1.3446202249. 10 51
                                       6
                                    C
      Vikrithi Vk            ( 1 ) . ( 2. n
                                  n            1)
                                                    2
                                                        1   0.9159656254
178
                        n
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.



Moolaprakriti. Axiomatic derivation. The Moolaprakrithi is
the smallest interactive component of the Purusha. Since it is the
basic or fundamental state and forms a unit of interactive time
cycle or inertia count with every state, it has a number of ways of
derivation that confirms its extremely small value relative to the
Purusha. The cycle of 10 counts increases its value by breaking
its coherent and synchronise state and attains the value of C. The
velocity of light in Physics has the same number value if the
wavelength is defined as a metre and time of a second is
exteneded by a factor 1.010845. The ability to derive the
equivalent of the velocity of light that was made into an
universal constant and limit arbitrarily, reinforces the logic of
Sankhya, for here it is an axiomatic constatnt of interactive
vibrations between components in the space. C corrects the
experimental value by the doppler shift created by the Galactic
transfer velocity in space.
In Sankhya, components in space do not and cannot travel but
only stresses created by interactions can transmigrate. The
combined or aglomerate form is maintained by vibrations
caused by interactions and only such stresses transmigrate.
Hence the concept of a velocity in a sea of components in space
cannot be accommodated but the transfer of stresses as phase
transmigration velocity is justified. The holographic vibratory
state remains at a constant rate C in FM12, when coherence is
broken and the value changes according to Guna laws during the
cyclic interactive states. It will be shown in later Suthras that
interaction rates remain at 23.23 and 259.55 vibrations per cycle
as the internal coherent and surface resonant rate of
transmigration of stresses respectively. They correspond to
sound and terrestrial quake velocities. C = 296575966 is reached
when coherence breaks at a gradient of 1 by 2.
     In an interaction between two components three modes of
evalution is followed. The vibrating cubic form of a component
179
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of space in a coherent state is numerically equal to C3 counts per
cycle. A point to note is the cyclic interval is 1/C 3 if all three
axis are not acting together or operate in phase or in step. It
changes to 1/C2 if two axis synchronise and 1/C if all three
synchronise into a coherent state. The disapperance or vanishing
of C2 in two stage of synchronisation of axis is the cause of the
observed difference in mass-energy or charge-potential or
strong-weak-electromagnetic or solid-liquid-vapour or hadron-
lepton-photon polarisation phenomenon in Physics.
The Thaamasic mode of internal interaction is C3 x C3 =C6. If a
number of component forms are combined then the six sides
interact with its opposite as C2 and all three axis acting together
results in (C2 )3 = C6 again. This is the maximum number of
interactive states that can be created within a cycle. Therefore
the Moolaprakriti must logically be the 1/C6 fraction of the
maximum period of the Purusha coherent state. My is the
smallest possible interactive value taking C as the value of the
resonant state. The relevance of the Moolaprakrithi to all aspects
of cyclic phenomenon is highlighted in the figure ‘Closed
Substratum of Space’ on page 82. The derivation of all the six
stable states linked to the Moolaprakrithi value by C is an
exquisite proof of the profoundness of Sankhyan logic shown the
section ‘Axiomatic Mathematical Derivations”.
Prakrithi Mahad Saptha. Mathematical Derivation. The
Prakrithi states are nodal ensembles that retain their stable
positions while changing from the coherent to the resonant
positions. All these are changes in the same locations that
interact as a simultaneous group and expand to the stable level.
The interactive states in this spectrum of seven levels are at the
core level . The Mahad state changes are brought about by a
break in the coherent state where all three axis are in step and the
count is just C even though the C3 is its real value. Here the
vibrations or oscillations occur in the breathing mode and only
the stresses transmigrate as internal phase changes hence C2 is
hidden as superposed counts.

180
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
As the angular cyclic interval widens between any two axis the
breathing mode counts change from C to C3 in stages. The
superposed state signifies the potential phase or the Linga mode
of interaction. The progressive angular widening changes the
Linga potential into the Bhava form of kinetic potential. It
changes the breathing mode to a radially widening spinning
mode of interactive balance. Evidence of changing time periods
are introduced in the region. The polarisation of Linga into the
Bhave phase as sequentially changing location of interactions is
seen as spin. When C has broken its coherent state by increasing
C through C2 to its basic level of C3 the process reaches its stable
state at the expanded end. During this complex change,
superpositioning density, interactive time cycle, radial counts
and inertia (or mass) have changed simultaneously in a perfect
process of self similar ratio of exchange without radiating or
absorbing counts in the same location.
The Mahad Prakrithi changes to Saptha Prakrithi state as
transmigratory stress change process in the same location. It can
be visulalised as twisting and untwisting type of oscillatory
interactions, in a stable state. Identifying it in Physics the Mahad
is the Planck Mass state and the Prakrithi Saptha the Neutron in
the hadronic spectrum. The quark levels change through seven
levels of interconnected states identified as being in assymptotic
freedom. All these interactions are axiomatic because the
motivation comes from hindering the synchronisation process of
absorbing counts. It is the perfect yo-yo effect that is sustained
only because there is no physical movement but transfer of
stresses at resonance through transmigration. Equation. S 3. B.
                 1
                 x
            10       .       1 n . 10 2 2
     Kx                                        0.9149879388
             k8              23      10 2
                         n
                                 2        1
                 1
                 x                2
            10               1   2    2
181 Mps
                     . 10                     2.2036944538 . 10 8
                 8
             k
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.


The rigorous derivations are shown in the section on axiomatic
mathmatics but the relevant states are derived here to enable
understanding of a most phenomenal process that establishes the
power house in space. The Mahad Mps value is derived by
allowing the 7 RS resonant state, that maintains the coherent
Purusha Kx state of balance, to expand to C . FM13 shows the
Purusha Kx change to Mps by an exchange of the expanding
parameters C/(7 RS) to its axiomatic limit. Value of C an
expression from FM 12, is shown in FM13 to highlight at a
glance the spectacular change of a blackhole state Kx to its
interactive commencement state of Mps. The same change
shown in symbolic form highlights the equivalence in a
traditional form.




           Fig: The Linga-Bhaava Polarising Form.

The Purusha Kx oscillatory state depicts momentum confined as
internally transmigrating stresses. That equivalence is confirmed
by the Planckmass momentum of Mps into C, the velocity of
light. This interface Fig. 14A called Andhathamisrah-Moha
changes from a coherent potential state of interactive stresses
182
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
held as ‘confined momentum’ to a dynamic momentum of the
Mps Mahad mass. Here is an extraordinary proof that the largest
momentum Mps C is equal to the resonantly oscillating stresses
in every Purusha blackhole in space as Kx 7 Rs. This
equivalence of static momentum or dormant potential to dynamic
momentum is the equivalent of entropy in Physics, which
enumerates the modes of change possible in such a state. It
provides the mechanism for absorbing interactive counts from
the C state to the 7 RS coherent state. Therefore radiation is
absorbed in space, hence photons must decay in 10 18 interactive
displacement of 1/10 of cycle or 0.6283. Further, the Mps value
is derived in 5 different ways and give identical numerical value
which removes any doubt about its statistical significance.
     PM the Prakrithi Saptha or the 7th harmonic level of the
Baryonic/Hadronic spectrum is identified as a stable nuclear
state. Its generic derivation is shown in FM14.

                                              3
                     2           2        2
                 1           1        1
                     2 n . An . 2
       PM                                         1.6744231791 . 10 27
                             2                3

                                  2
                         1       2        2
               10
Equation S. 3 C.
Comparison with FM12 exposes the change over from the Mps
coherent boundary to the synchronous limit. PM a hadronic state
behaves in Neutron / Proton modes depending on its freedom to
act. The PM state is a C3 / Px count in space , the perpetual and
axiomatic internal oscillatory state. It cannot decay but all other
states decay into this state first. Because Px is the axiomatic
coherent, ‘rest’ state of a cubic unit of holographic space. This
axiomatic constant figures in many interactions at the
fundamental level. The actual PM state cannot be detected as it is
183
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
in a coherent state. FM15 shows the perfect balance. Just as a
spherical photon cannot be detected, so to the PM, Mps and Kx
states Any difference in counts between any two axis sets the An
vector ( see FM4) to balance by resonance. It forms a potential
well or the negative gradient in the normal C3 count The Px
factor keeps the surface in a spherical form of vibrations in the
Equation. S.3.D
                                                  3
                        2            2        2
                    1            1        1
           Px                                         20.9479860976
                            n.
                        2 An . 2

             Kx                          Kx. 7. RS            C3. my
                        =1                         =1                =1
        C3. PM. Px                        C. Mps              Px. PM
breathing mode for all three axis have C/ Px 1/3 counts that
provides lower rate to keep PM surface boundary in the form of
a potential well. The Linga / Bhava interfaces at the PM
boundary is stable because no counts are radiated or absorbed. A
critical analysis of the mutual relationship is given below with a
diagram.

          A n dh at h am ish ra_81 0
          K x. 7 . RS 6 .5 3 5 6 2 8                      3 _ A x is_ Sy n ch ro n y
                             10
             M o h a_ 1 0
                 . 6 .5 3 5 6 2 8
             M p sC
                                                          2 _ A x is_ Sy n ch ro n y
                     10
   M ah am o h a_ 1 0
   P M. P x. C3. 7 . RS 6 .5 3 5 6 2 8
         Fig: The Thaama Intreraction In Linga Mode
    The Kx, Mps and PM are three phases of the Thaama Linga
coherent potential in a centred state and all are equal to a
184
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
constant. Kx is the Andhathamisra state at an interactive internal
stress transfer rate of 7 RS counts per cycle.
Here the Purushha component in space is in its fundamental
isolated and free state. It is the ground state where FM12, Kx
formulation exists. Therefore all higher count rates drift towards
such centers which behave as a blackhole state. Why do
interactive counts drift?The diagram Fig:14. shows how the
higher interactive count drifts or gravitates or transmigrates to a
stable lower count rate.
     The 5+5=10 maintains the same central meeting point
always. The 11 to 14 counts show the incremental drift of the
meeting point towards the 5 count rate. 5/10 is 0.5 but 5/14 =
0.357 The reason why count rates drift to the Kx level can be
explained by another method. The Mps count is accumulated C
times and held
together as a simultaneous ensemble which then has to be
interacted only 7 times in a cycle to equal the total Kx count
value. Momentum conservation concept imposes the rule that
larger the count value as a single ensemble, the slower is the rate
of interactive transfer. It takes 8 cyclic changes or 10 8 counts to
shift to the lower level.
Again if 5 counts per cycle takes 1/5 of the cyclic period to

                                5+5=10


                                5+6=11


                               5+7=12

                                 5+8=13


                                5+9 =14


                   Fig. Stress Transmigration.
185
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
reach a point, then 10 counts per cycle sends 2 counts in the
same period. Hence the essence of the principle is if the counts
per cycle match exactly then the meeting point remains in the
same position or else there is a change in interactive location.
Two sentries keeping watch across a doorway will always meet
at the centre if they take the same number of equal steps . The
moment a step or rate becomes unequal the process of separation
starts. This is the only reason for transmigration or movement of
vibratory or oscillatory states that represent stress in any of three
forms. Filling a box with 100 cubes one at a time takes 100
operations and the interval of time for each action takes 1/100th
of the whole cycle. If 10 cubes are transferred simultaneously as
a group in each operation of 1/100th of a cycle, 9/100th of the
remaining part is an idle period in which no transfers would be
detected. Therefore simultaneous events have to be treated
differently and cannot be averaged. The Laser amd Maser types
of coherent phenomenon with unusual results underline this
concept. Coherent radiation of energy is in pulsed form.
The Mps at the Andhathamisra-Moha (blackhole-boundary)
interface interacts in the Raja Linga mode at C counts per cycle.
Though cubic space counts are C3 / cycle the potential is reduced
to C because 2 axis are synchronised at this interface and hides
the C2 counts. Recall the experiment when ten claps count as one
clap, when perfectly synchronisously. In this state stresses
transmigrate and act in the sequential prakrithi mode and is the
equivalent of momentum without any movement or static stress.
If there is movement the two axis synchrony will be broken and
the Prakrithi state will be destroyed. The resonant C counts per
cycle at a cyclic period diference of 1 to 2 remains centred and
thus creates the largest inertial state ready to transfer stresses.
The proof is shown in the axiomatic derivation section where the
displacement counts per cycle is exactly 7/My, proving that the
Moolaprkriti is not only the smallest unit of activity but also the
highest eccelarative unit in the Universe. The counts at this
interface transmigrate to Kx at 7 RS when the rate C is

186
                      B H A V AS T A T E
        M p.sC
                  C3
         . x7
      P MP . .R S
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
exceeeded. The potential drop at this interface is C/7 RS counts
per cycle..      A b h im a a n A h a n k a r
The Prakrithi Saptha PM also acts within the Thaama state and
operates at the Moha- Mahamoha interface. It expands as the
change in the coherent state breaks the symmetry. The density or
the superpositioning of counts reduces to an axiomatic cyclically
interactive state ofB hsynchronous
                          o o th a a n i activity.V ikIta roattains the
equivalence of the normal state of components in the C3 state of
                                 7 . mode.
a cube oscillating in the breathing          1 In 2the breathing mode
only the stresses from confined interactive activity 1 8 3 7transmigrate
                                                              .1 8 7 4
internally to maintain balance           n
                               k but1 there.   .
                                              would   be  no   detectable
                                       2 An 2
change in the external state. For example        while inside the Sun
there is intense activity but the shape of the outer surface
remains the same. All the interactions upto this point have been
internal, self similar, perpetual and unmanifest. It is still in the
Thaama interactive state operating in the Linga mode of
simultaneous activity. This interface is in a complex interactive
state that breaks its coherent, simultaneous Thaama mode to
enter the sequential and radiative Raja and Satwa interactive
modes. A detailed analysis of the complex changes are shown
                       B H A V A STA
diagramatically and axiomatically          TE
                                      in Fig.15.
         M ps. C
                  C3
         .  .   .
       PM Px 7 RS

                    Abhim aan          Ahankar



                         Bhoothaani                  Vikaro
                                                2
                                   7 . 1
                                                  1837.1874
                                  k 1 2n. A . 2
                                               n



187
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

            Fig: The Bhava State Of Nuclear Interface
The Red Linga mode of simultaneous interactive states breaks at
the pink Abhimaan interface first and later at the green Ahankar
interface. All the regions blue, green and violet are detectable.
Within the blue only Thamasic and Rajasic Prikrithi harmonic
states remain stable and observable. The Rajasic Vikrithi non
synchronous states are not stable and only fleeting, momentary
and trancendenatal phenomenon can be observed, detected and
interacted with. The Sathwic states are free, expansive and
radiant states that become observable as a reaction. The Sathwic
radiative states form the resonant decay states that interactively
get absorbed into the substratum the moment they are
accelerated beyond C because the coherent and quiescent
Thamasic Linga state of the Kx/Mps/PM spectrum are always at
C . Recall C2 synchrony hides in C3 to maintain only C counts.
As a result of two axis synchronising, space cannot be radiant
because it is in an absorbing state. The absorbing action is only
possible in the coherent state wich automaticall reduce counts by
synchrony. Again recall Kx is idling at 7 RS counts per cycle
and therefore it has a prodigious capacity to absorb all counts
above 8 per cycle. Extremely long waves are involved in this
spectrum.
The Abhimaan interface between the C3 Thaamasic and a
spectrum of Raja states varying from C2 to C in cyclic periods




188
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                 Fig: The Abhiman Potential Well .
extending over 13 billion years, forms an unusual junction or
transfer point. Two opposite locations of the Abhimaan gap must
be dealt with synchronously but not simultaneously. It means the
interactive event in the Raja Abhimaan interface need not be
found in the same location. As an example though the distance
from the moon or the sun remains approximately same, the
orbiting bodies keep changing its angular locations according to
certain rules.
The concept of spin does not exist in an interactive environment
but sequential displacements may seem to follow a
curved path in a period. Current Gravitational theories look at
the phenomenon as isolated from the coherent stresses in space
whereas Sankya theory shows that disturbance of the restful or
coherent state of the substratum creates gravitational and or
related activities. All manifestaion is a local event because the
maximum rate of power generation is vested in every coherent
point in space and disruptive signals trigger action locally.The
blue Boothani spectrum forms the magnetic or superposed count
section in the resonant Raja state. Crossing the green Ahankar
interface the purple Sathvic state commences as a radiative or
accelerative transmigratory mode of Vikaaro. It covers the
radiant photonic spectrum upto the boundary where phenomenon
gets reversed due to axiomatic conditions.
Shown in Fig:17, the Linga Bhava transition mode, at the
Abhimaan interface, forms a potential well, through conversion
of the coherent symmetric state into a synchronous resonant
state, at the same potential , across this gap. It is a linking,
coupling or connecting region that changes simultaneous
interactions to sequential interaction and viceversa without loss
of counts. Potential Linga state changes to a Kinetic Bhava state
across an axiomatic gap. The nodes in the simultaneous domain
have a ratio shown in the derivation of Kx in EP13. In the
Abhimaan region, there are synchronous, sequential and resonant
states that are shown in Fig:17 as (k-1), 7 and FM4 as π /10 . The
change is the angular π / 10 and (8-1) factors respectively. There
189
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
are no changes manifestated at this interface. As an exmple
water forms into ice at the same temperature without loss of
sensible heat yet ice has ‘lost’ latent heat. [This is the vanishing
count event due to synchronisation of interactions.] In Fig:18 the
outer lip at the circumference depicts sequential events that do
not take place simultaneously. Hence interactive events would
seem to rotate or spin or change position in sequential steps. The
central hole depicts the simultaneous activity superposed or
synchronised or phased in lock-step at the same radial location.
It is the Andhathamishra or blackhole region. The dip or well
formed can be understood by visualising the actions in this
region.
Consider that the central section, for example, has 100 counts but
grouped together in tens and distributed radially in 10 sectors
around the ‘hole’ region. Opening out ten counts in an equalised
mode would require 10 times the distance. But here the
combined, interactive ratio 7/(k-1) forms a constraint which
results in a deformation due to a non linear rate of interaction of
the Vikrithi or non-harmonius oscillations type. The Prakrithi
mode at the mouth of the hole is separated by an axiomatic ratio
of (k-1) from the next Prakrithi harmonic stata at the outer lip of
the well. In between, the non-synchronous Vikrithi state diplays
a
lower potential or count rate and interactive states from both
sides of the well attain a balance at the trough. The well indicates
a lower potential or Abhimaan state with a lower count rate per
cycle due to synchrony. As a result the absorption factor
explained earlier comes into play and forms a stable and
resonant state at the bottom of the trough. The ratio is exactly the
count diffrence between Prakrithi state of PM or nucleon and the
Vikrithi state of a lepton or Electron as 1837.42 This value is an
axiomatic numerical ratio and this cyclic proportionality exists at
the Linga-Bhava interface. The Prakrithi state gravitating from
the central hole region down into well meets the Vikrithi state
too
Equation. S 3. E.
190
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         2
            k        1                     . 10 30                   . 10 31
 PM .                            2.30862             Me   9.110234
                 7

                             2
                 1                         . 10 30                   . 10 35
 Me .                            2.30862             Ne   9.528734
            n.
        2        A .2n

                         3                      2
                7                     7                       30
  Ne .
FM16               .                  2.30862 . 10
         k    1       n
                     2 . A n . 20
Gravitating down from the outer lip to attain a balance. The
Prakrithi or hadronic state loses its denser superpositioned count
to progressively take a curved path while the Vikrithi state loses
it rate of displacement to eventually attain a superposed coherent
or
synchronous or superposed potential state. The balance is shown
in FM16 exactly at 2.3e-30 fraction of a cyclic count. It is worth
noting the subtle mecahnism of control in maintining the
balance. The PM (Neutron/Proton etc) side has a fixed ratio of
7/(k-1) whereas the vector An is a variable that matches the
standing wave harmonic of 2n to maintain this balance on the
Electron to Neutrino section over the outer rim. The Electron
Me and Neutrino Ne are separated by the resonant potential
difference caused by the nodal separation. While the Electron at
the first Abhimaan potential-well balanced the Proton- Neutron
configuration, the 7 Neutrino spectrum shown in the Raja
Bhoothani region balanced the green Ahankar transition zone.
Beyond it in the purple Sathwa state, the well known hydrogen
spectrum, where the radiant zone commenced. Fig.19.




191
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.



           Fig: The Ahankar Spectrum Of 7 Ne States.
A notable point at this exotic interface of the Ahankar region, is
that the potential changes by breaking resonance between the
two axis in the Raja resonant region across a k-1 gap to radiate
Vrithis or Photons. The proof is in the mass-energy value of the
7th neutrino of 53.2 electron volts (EV) to the 13.6 EV of the
hydrogen radiant spectrum. By placing Fig. 18 as the enlarged
region in the central zone of Fig 19 the plancks constant with a
potential value of 7 Ne or 372 EV resides in the hole while the
Ne of 53.2 EV stays at the bottom of the well and the Hydrogen
spectrum of 13.6 EV radiates from the outer lip through 7 nodal
levels shown in Fig. 19. The mechanism of spontaneous creation
of various particle states depending on density of interactive
stable counts is in each region and is shown in the axiomatic
derivations. Hence Neutron and Proton states are just the
interactive counts at the top or bottom of the inner side of the
well and the leptonic Electron or Neutrino states are similar
bottom or top positions on the outer rim of the well. Similarly
planks constant of 7 Ne and Ne are the top and bottom states of
the inner side of the well while the Vrithi or photon of Ne (k-1)
value radiate from the outer rim.
All these particulate states are created by hidden potential
interaction that releases no evidence of its action. Because
superpositioning or phase locking or simultaneous interactions
are carried out within a cycle of 10 counts, which forms a
‘logarithmical instant’. Hence only the log index of cyclic
changes of ten counts/cycle alter the values. In between, only
the phase or angular relationships change without creating any
detectable displacement. The hidden potential change is a
magnificient simultaneous operation created only by the
axiomatic conditions of all related parameters.. The mechanism
of interactive change is given in the section ‘Power House Of
The Universe’.
192
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Another proof for a cycle of 10 inteactive events is shown again
as it is relevant to the concepts in this Suthra.
Equation. S.3.F.
1            3           5          7           9         =25
9            7           5          3           1         =25
10           10          10         10          10        =50
Even numbered interactions or oscillations will be absorbed as a
synchronised harmonic to form a standing wave or a nodal
position. The odd numbered oscillatory rates will however tend
to build up harmonics.           Therefore the total number of
incremental states possible are the five variations in the Guna
spectrum and that leads to a total of 25 variations in both phases.
That creates a standard cyclic variation of 10 counts at each
stage that evens out to maintain an apparent static state. A
standing wave does not consume energy and this sequence
confirms that fact.
In later Suthras the cycle is derived and shown to be 10 ( (n x
(n+1)) /2 when n=4 ) and the logarithmic value to the base 10 is
the measurable value of C ; C = 10C = 296575966 oscillations
per cycle. This is the stable oscillatory rate per cycle when there
is no acceleration or rate of change of cycles. The numerical
value is equal to the velocity of light in m/sec in physics. But in
Sankhya it is the stable oscillatory ground state. The
moolaprakrithi value is derived from it.




193
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




                  Fig: Observable Phenomenon.
In order to understand why space seems undetectable, a cubic
section is shown with a ‘random’ aggregation of Moolaprakrithi
states as coloured cubes. The cubes that are able to vibrate or
oscillate due to non coherent interaction are shown with spaces
surrounding them. The changing boundaries enable detection
but in the rest of the apparently blank space the changes are
undetectable and the cubes become invisible. The visible ones
are in a vibratory state , hence become observable as matter or
phenomenon. The blank sections are also field by the same
elemental components but cannot be detected for they are in a
coherent vibratory state. Suthra 32, defines the maximum
acceleration or the minimum cyclic interval that makes it
impossible to discriminate between two interactions. The field of
action becomes continuous. While the interactive cyclic rate is C
the limiting rate is C1+x. That rate marks the boundary of two
adjacent components and the extremely small interval hides the
separated state of the components.




194
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




195
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 4.
Verification of reality through axiomatic proof.

drishtamanumaanamaapthavachanam
perception-inference-axiomatic principles
cha sarvapramaanisidhathvath.
and complete-logic- by siddhi
thrividham pramaanamishtam
threefold   rationale-appropriate
prameyaasiddhi:       pramaanaaddhi .
theoretical- siddhi. logical theoretical container

Meaning: Siddhi or conclusive holistic proof is arrived at by a
process of logical and theoretical analysis of information from
observations, inferences and axiomatic principles. When such
holistic conclusions are further condensed by using the threefold
analytical process with appropriate rationale and theory, it is
established as a conclusive axiomatic theorem.
Explanation: (Siddhi is also translated as a perfection meaning
'flawless.' Any proof of any theorem or proposition must be
flawless or form axiomatic principles) The threefold analytical
process is : Sequentially analysing information. Analysing the
sequential information in permutation and combinations of the
previous results and drawing inferential conclusions . Putting all
the previous outputs together in a simultaneous mode and
intellectually experiencing the foregoing results and deriving a
set or unified unit of logic that can be used as the container or
nested nugget for including more complex and related
conclusions. It becomes a logical theorem
The process is the same interactive method followed by the Guna
interactions, explained in later Suthras 11 to 18
The outcome of such a process is an acceptable, perfected,
holistic, logical set of conclusions that can be called a theorem or
principle.

196
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The same process can be repeated with more complex input
information to establish new principles containing within it
earlier principles to form a nested holistically logical theorem or
principle. The meditative process dealt with in appendix C
covers the above principle in detail and establishes the
unambiguous technique of attaining the skill of thinking or
rationalising perfectly by following the same interactive process
followed in the substratum.




197
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 5.
Process of verification of detectable phenomenon.


prathivishayaadhyavasayo
reference –sensory-persistent
drishtam trividhamanumaanamaakyaatham .
perception threefold -inferential-defininition
thalingaalingapurvakamaapthashruthir-
detectable-undetectable-source-axiomatic
aapthavachananthu.
axiomatic principle/theory

Meaning: With reference to persistent continuous sensory
perception of phenomenon there are three aspects of factual
information with characteristices like (positive) detectable ,
(negative) undetectable, (neutral) original characteristics that
can be measured, analysed and interpreted to establish an
axiomatic theorem or principle.
Explanation: In dealing with vibratory or oscillatory
phenomenon, measurements or detection processes must take
into account the three phases of an oscillation. Any oscillation
adds parameters to an original or base level and goes below or
displays a negative characteristic that must be inferred and
obtaining factual data depends on this principle of analysing all
the three phases.
Manifested phenomenon can be dealt with by using
observational techniques in a referential way to establish
empirical principles, rules and theorems. The neutral
characteristics are the common         or standard yardsticks
established by common consent, usage, practice etc. As the
absolute value of any phenomenon can never be measured or
detected by the observer, as shown earlier, the positive and
negative values are the incremental and decremental values the
observer detects or measures with reference to a standard or
198
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
neutral base value of his own choice, need or capability. The real
meaning of a totally relative perception or detection or
consciousness or awareness is established by this Suthra.




199
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                            Suthra 6.
Process of holistic derivation of proof is siddhi.

saamaanyathasthudrishtadathindriyaanam
synchronised-moving expansive phenomena-imperceptible
prasidhiranumaanaath .
 successful inference
thasmaadaapichaasiddham
hence-and also-holistic axiomatic proof
parokshamaaptaagamaath siddham .
experience mentally-axiomatic-deductive-holistic-proof

Meaning: And in the case of phenomenon that is imperceptible,
mobile, expansive and hence undetectable, inferential method
using holistic, deductive, logical, verification technique to
mentally experience phenomenon, is known as siddhi.
Explanation: And in the case of phenomenon that is
undetectable because it is synchronised, mobile, expansive or
imperceptible ,inferential methods using holistic deductive logic
(siddhi) is the only verification technique that will provide the
proof.
From the very first suthra it was established by a string of
rigorous logic that the fundamental substratum could never be
measured, detected or dealt with through direct sensory
interactive techniques of any type. Now this Suthra establishes
that the verification of the basic substratum can be carried out
only by rigorous logic through a structured system or technique
called siddhi or holistic meditative system. It is a process of
analysing information in a synchronous or simultaneous or
parallel mode. This method can therefore be applied to any
verification process where direct evidence or information is not
available. In fact it is the system of perfecting the rational &
logical thinking process. Since the phenomenon is not detectable,
a technique of providing an abstract basis is siddhi and the
200
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
meditative procedures (appendix c) give an error proof answer.
Science depends on mathematics to provide the rigour to verify
the correctness of a theorem or a proposition.
But Sankhya lays emphasis on a specialised process of thinking
that is superior even to mathematical logic. There are two
important reasons both of which are dealt with in Suthras 2 &
14. The major reason is that even detectable phenomenon are
experienced in the mind as a mental event before one gains total
understanding of it. The process of mentally experiencing a
phenomenon is in no way different from the laws governing an
external event. The substratum of the mind behaves exactly in
the same way as the universal substratum. The process of
gaining perfect understanding is like the operation in
photographic reproduction in a movie camera; the dynamic
external scale of events are compressed or focussed to an internal
scale and recorded perfectly every instant. The mind is capable
of dealing with phenomenon in a similar way , not only with
detectable but also abstract or synthesized inputs with perfection.
It is said that a picture is a worth a thousand words and it could
be extended in a similar way to mean that an "instant" of a movie
is worth a thousand "still" pictures but all these are only in the
"visual field". By the same logic Sankhya siddhi process is a
dynamic experience worth a thousand movies!. The verbal
description of such an experience will be a complex process.




201
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 7.
The reasons why manifestation may not be detected


athiduurath samiipyadh- indhriyaghaathan
too- faraway too close- sensory obstruction
manon-avasthanat.
mental - stresses
saukshmyad-vyavadhanad- abhibhavat
subtleties-       occultation-   predominance
samanabhihara-cha .
camouflaging         -etc.

Meaning: Extremely far or near distances, mental and sensory
inefficiencies, subtle or attenuated conditions, occultation or
eclipsing of the object, poor background contrast, camouflaging
effect (are the causes of non detection or non measurement of
phenomenon).
Explanation. The individually obvious factors are listed below
but there is a major collective reason that affects the detection
process seriously. Items 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8 existing simultaneously
can distort the result. However the same type of distortion occurs
when vibrations or oscillations synchronise. If ten people clap
their hands sequentially the ten claps can be detected as such. If
they all clap simultaneously or at the same time then only one
clap would be heard due to factors covered by items 3, ( poor
discriminatability of claps), 6 ( one clap covers many claps),
and 8, (one clap is heard but nine claps are hidden in the duration
of the first clap) but it would be louder than the single clap or its
energy / potential value would be greater. Hence one must take
all these factors into account consciously before coming to
conclusion.
The factors causing the attenuation are self explanatory and
needs little explanation to understand. A signal is really a
variation in a background state of continuos dynamic change.
202
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The ability to detect implies that the observer has the power to
discriminate these variations to get the real meaning to decode it
effectively. Any obstruction obviously would interfere directly.
But if the signal cannot be distinguished from the background
dynamic state , the signal cannot be dealt with meaningfully.
One cannot detect a candle at a distance in bright sunlight, or a
particular sound in a cacophony of sounds, a particular coloured
object against the same background colour etc. The explanation
is as follows:
1. Athi-durath : too far = loss of signal strength due to great
distance
2. Samipyad : too near = signal strength strong, overlaps,
discrimination not possible
3. Indriyaghatan: sensory obstruction = high resistance to signal
transmission.
4. Manon avasthanat: mental or instrumental stresses and
distortions
5. Saukshmyad: subtle or attenuated , low intensity
6. Vyavadhanad : occultation or eclipsing. = periodic physical
obstruction in the signal path.
7. Abhibhavat : background contrast. = signal to carrier
differential amplitude too small.
8. Samanabhihara : camouflaging effect , simultaneous events
,signal noise at same level.




203
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 8.
The reason why the fundamental substratum is not detectable.


saukshmyathadanupalabdhirn'abhavat
subtleness hence non detection notnon-existence
karyatastadupalabdhi .
reaction therefore detection
mahadadi thach cha karyam.
intense-original following- actions
prakritivirupam swarupam cha .
oscillations- harmonics - fundamental

Meaning: The non detectability (of the substratum) is due to the
extremely attenuated reactions put out and not because it
(substratum) do not exist. Only reactions are detectable. For
when the reaction of the primary or first displacement takes
place then a sequence of oscillations are detected that are either
in its original form or harmonics .
Explanation: The state of the components of the substratum are
in a dynamic state but when the reactions from the interactions
are very fine or subtle it may not be possible to detect it but that
does not mean that there is no activity in the substratum of space.
When there is an activity at source an intense reaction follows
with a number oscillations that are in the original form or are
distorted and therefore make it detectable in some aspect or
another. When the coherent or balanced state is upset the non
synchronous vibrations or oscillations become detectable.
As will be shown later, the substratum is in a dynamic oscillatory
state due to the quality of self similarity , wherein due to gradient
1: 2 or rate difference of one unit, the internal state of the
components is kept in perpetual oscillation due to a third order
damping force generated internal due to the rate of acceleration
exceeding the cube of velocity during the change in parameters.
The oscillations or permanent only because no energy or force is

204
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
either radiated or absorbed in this process but is continuously
balanced as an internal cycle. Only the unbalanced, secondary or
reactive radiation is detectable.




205
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 9.
Logical reasons why the substratum must exist if manifestation
           exists.

asadhkaranadhupadhanagrahanath
illogical-action-continuous-material cause
sarvasambhavabhavath.
acceptance all- possibility
shaktasya shakyakaranath
non existing ability-possible-act
karanabhav cha
cause-existence therefore
satkaryam .
law or axiom or rule

Meaning: It is a logical error to accept that continuous or all
possible modes of action (manifestation) are possible without a
physical cause; the ability to act in all possible ways must be due
to the existence of a cause, therefore it becomes an axiomatic
rule

Explanation: Logically only changes can be detected and a
change is an action or activity. Activity cannot exist without a
base or something to act on. Again reactions are result of an
action so there must be a cause or an original reason.From the
Suthra x it was established that only reactions are detected .
There fore if something is detected there can be no effect without
a cause nor can there be a reaction without an action. Detection
of any manifestation must be due to an action , (the oscillatory
nature of phenomenon) as outlined in the earlier Suthras . Action
causes reaction and is equal and opposite. This Suthra lays out
the foundation in a negative way to oscillatory dynamics. 1.
Cause precedes effect and effect becomes cause for the next
cycle, and will continue endlessly, decay (stop) or
resonate(increase) according to the timing or phasing explained
206
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
below. 2. If within the duration of cause the effect is reversed (by
any means) then the cycle is discontinued ( decay till cycle is
stopped). 3. If the reversal of effect (by any means) is timed or
synchronised with the termination of the causal cycle the static
state is reached. 4. If the reversal of effect is timed or
synchronised with the start of a cycle then the increase will
sustain and grow to a state of self sustained resonance and if this
timing is lost the cycle will decay.




207
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 10.
Detection of manifestation is due to changes, the lack of which
           makes phenomenon undetectable.

hethumathanithyamavyapi
effect-temporary-non-pervasive
sakriyamanekamashritham
active-many-supportive
lingam .
potential characteristics
saavayavam paratantram ayaktham
with- mass      dependant      manifestation
viparithamavyaktham .
reverse- unmanifest-phenomenon

Meaning: The caused detectable effect of manifested
phenomenon are relatively temporary; confined to limited
region; proceed from action to action; resulting in a sequence of
actions; and also becomes the cause of initiating further action;
with identified characteristics; has the quality of being
substantial or with mass; as it is a resultant, so it is a secondary
trait; and the unmanifest cannot be detected because of the
inability to discern such effects.
Explanation: This theorem must be understood very well to
know the process of manifestation because it leads to an
extraordinary conclusion. That is the observer cannot detect the
permanent aspects of nature. Monotonous oscillations cannot be
detected meaningfully.(the carrier wave lacks information.)
Change is the cause of detection. Even if a dynamic event
repeats the same set of details in a synchronised way such that no
change is caused then the phenomenon is undetectable.           The
process of detection or measurement is a referential or a relative
process and unless the phenomenon being measured has a
comparable foundation ,it cannot be detected. Comparison of
both the static and dynamic qualities are necessary to understand
208
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
it. Hence every aspect of an investigation must show this relative
characteristic; like if time is measured then the phenomenon
must be of a temporary nature or else it becomes the background
phenomenon or the permanent state. Taking the locality of the
phenomenon it must be confined to a limited region for it to be
called an event ,else it becomes the background state; a
permanent blue sky is the background to detect changes which
show up as clouds, sun, stars etc. For the same reason only
reactions can be detected since it is related to an action that is
caused. If the cause is sustained then the reactions sustain a
sequence of events or characteristics without which it becomes
undetectable. The change that creates a phenomenon from a
fundamental background state always produce a time (or
duration) change indicating inertia or mass. Since any
manifested phenomenon is the result of an initiated change then
it can be considered only as a secondary activity hence the
primary      cause cannot itself be detected. Therefore the
fundamental, originating causes can never be detected by any
means by an observer who is a phenomenon himself, in the sense
that his existence itself, is due to a reaction or secondary effect.




209
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 11.
Characteristics of the three states of phenomenal interaction.

thrigunamaviveki vishaya:
triple-vectors-undetectable phenomenon;
samanyamachethanam prasavadharmi .
synchronised-inanimate       generation law
vyaktham thatha pradhanam
manifest     onwards primary force and
thadviparithasthatha cha puman.
Reverse-likewise            and nucleus

Meaning: The inability to discriminate between the triad of
stressed states that form the dynamic connection is the cause of
not detecting phenomenon in a synchronised, static or
unmanifest state. The triplicity of dynamic forces that connect it,
is a principle that applies to the first or primary intense state and
the succeeding reactive states of manifestation and likewise to
the nucleus which however is in the opposite state (non
detectable state).
Explanation: Please see explanation section on stress in Suthra
1, for a detailed explanation of the concept of Guna. The triad of
stresses identified initially as internal, external and locally
created are all connected by a single factor which is a force or a
displacement acting in three modes called Triguna or triple
activity vectors. If this triad of forces in any form is not detected
then manifestation is not evident and dynamic phenomenon
seems static and static phenomenon is undetectable. Hence it is
termed a law or rule that if the Triguna is not detected than
phenomenon seems unmanifest. In fact the non dectability of the
nucleus or Purusha is due to the inability of the observer to
detect the Triuna for the nucleus. It is called a nucleus because
the activity of oscillations or vibrations that must be occurring
in a dynamic substratum, cannot be detected by the observer in
any discrete or measurable way but is only aware of its effects.
210
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Similarly radiation is detected only in certain groups that is
called a spectrum while the universe is filled with a continuous
sequence of wavelengths or frequencies. Therefore the observer
must attempt to discriminate the triad of forces to detect and
suppress it to not detect, and understand that non detection of
phenomenon does not mean non existence of phenomenon but
the triad of forces is not detectable for various reasons
Mathematical: Time is accounted in terms of interactions. The
even numbered intercations are divisible as powers of 2 and
remain in the same location as nodes but odd numbered
interactions spread as harmonics.
Unit time      12 =1       1x1=1         1+1=2         1-1=0
      2
Time           22 =4       2x2=4         2+2=4         2-2=0
                           1x4=4         1+3=4         1-3=-2
      3         3
Time           2 =8        4x2=8         4+4=8         4-4=0
                           1x8=8         3+5=8         3-5=-2
                                         2+6=8         2-6=-4
                                         1+7=8         1-7=-6
Time4          24 =16      8x2=16        8+8=16        8-8=0
                           4x4=16        7+9=16        7-9=-2
                           1x16=16       6+10=16       6-10=-4
                                         5+11=16       5-11=-6
                                         4+12=16       4-12=-8
                                         3+13=16       3-13=-10
                                         2+14=16       2-14=-12
                                         1+15=16       1-15=-14
    Simplifying by removing even nodes the sum of the odd
interactions in one direction add to 25 and in reverse, total 50.
But in each location the total of 10 counts establish the cycle.
1           3          5           7          9           =25
9           7          5           3          1           =25
10          10         10          10         10          =50




211
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




212
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 12.
The qualities of the triad of forces that form the connection .

prethyarpethyvishadhathmakah:
buoyant-balanced-despair- self
prakashapravrithiniyumaarth: .
expansion-interface-contraction-interaction
anyo’anyaabhibhavaashrayajananamithuna
mutually-domineering-interactive-creative-associative
vrithyshravaguna .
self-resonant-vectorial-quanta.

Meaning: Just as the human being undergoes, when under stress,
a three stage transfer from a state of buoyant feelings through a
calm state to state of utter despair; the three interactions of the
guna are from a state of free and mobile expansion through a
balanced and resonant interface to a state of compact coherent
contraction. As a result the three states are capable of mutually
interacting to override or strengthen or weaken ,one or both at
the expense of the remaining aspects; be creative or destructive
as a whole; associate or join or pair or combine to form groups;
and also exist by itself as self supporting resonant or dynamic
entity.
Explanation: Here the description of the triad of forces is given
in holistic logic so that the student can experience the dynamic
interaction in his own mind through the meditative process set
out as a principle in Suthras, 4, 5 and 6. From our current
scientific standpoint this Suthra is extremely important and
informative. To understand it, some of the information from the
later Suthras will have to be brought in at this point. Lets take the
substratum containing the equalised components in a dynamic
state and assume all of these to be vibrating or oscillating at a
rate of 2 oscillations per unit time with a displacement of 2 linear
units in the same period and that all of them act in a
synchronised manner and as a consequence all of the
213
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
components subtend the same proportionate measurements
relative to each other at any point in time and the change in
direction happens at the same time in all the components when
one component impacts each other . In this mental picture let us
change by reducing the rate of the component to the left of the
centred one, by 1 unit to one oscillation per unit time keeping all
other parameters the same. A sequence of changing events will
take place in a certain period till a balance is achieved with the
altered situation. The unit at the centre in its excursion to the left
will not impact that unit at the same time as the rest but will
continue its excursion till it impacts at a later time, thereby
causing a loss of synchronisation. The central component would
have moved 2 + .66 = 2.66 units the left 2 -.66 = 1.33 unit in the
same time of 2.66 units. Applying the same logic all the
components around the left one would travel 2.66 units before
impact because the left one would travel only 1.33 units.
In this example we see the action of the three guna - a delay
reduces the distance allround thereby producing the effect of
compaction or increase in density or mass and on the other side
an extension of the distance between the impact points or an
expansion of the space all round reducing density similarly and
in between a balanced state or the interface where the changes
oppose each other. Looking at this exercise holistically, we have
taken a parameter from one zone to another thereby creating
stress or an exchange of one characteristic that produces another
type of change which is only possible in a dynamic state. It is the
originating or normal state in Sankhya. The change from a
synchronised or balanced state produces a stress or force or
motivation or potential which if left to itself will return back to
the original synchronised state in a sequence of changing events.
more




214
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 13.
Identification and defining of the three forces.

satvam laghu
radiant swift
prakashakamishtamupaashtaambakam
intensely-energetic-as-required-beyond-eight-fluidic
chalam cha rajah: ,
shuttling between is the resonant state
guru varnakameva thamah:
heavy as-if-bound      coherent state
pradipavachaarthatho vrithi: .
radiating-from-it- potential vortex

Meaning: Sathwa is the force which operates outward at the
maximum speed with the required intensity and energy to
transmit the force beyond the level of the first octet of forces past
the nuclear boundary that is in a fluidic or flexible state. raja is
the force in the transition region of seven oscillatory plus the
first in the octet of forces; that shuttles inward or outward to
transfer the forces from nuclear boundary to the fluidic boundary
radial boundary and vice-versa; Thaama is the decelerating force
acting inward forming the static nuclear boundary; vrithi is the
resultant force that is radiated in the form of a selfsustained
vortex (particle) created by the permutations and combinations
of the previous three levels of forces to transfer force or energy.
Explanation: It has been already explained earlier that two unit
volume oscillate at half the time period of a unit volume within a
standard environment. Similarly a length of two units will have
half the time period of a unit length etc. In this background the
following is to be understood. The identification of sathva as the
electromagnetic radiating force ; raja as the electro-weak
bonding force and thaama as the strong nuclear force
complements the concept of the triad of forces or GUNA, as the
different phases of a standardised waveform of an oscillating
215
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
volume in the substratum . Vrithi is the mediating force
transferred through a volume that attains a self sustaining
particulate or inertia producing status when accelerated beyond a
thresh-hold. The concentration of forces at a colliding point
forming the crest of a holistic 3 dimensional or volumetric wave
in the nuclear region with the qualities of inertia or mass being
displayed in each cycle along with the associated quality of
thaama or strong force. At the trough of such a wave the
equalising quality of sathwa or the orbital balancing
electromagnetic force exists in each cycle . Both thaama and
sathwa have the quality of time permanence in each cycle as
these form the turning points or nodes of the cycle. In the
intermediate region however there is a continually changing
force that is either accelerative or decelerative in each half of the
cycle and it gives the quality of a changing or shuttling force
which is Raja or the weak charge changing force that bridges the
electromagnetic and strong force regions in particle physics.




216
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




217
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 14.
Holistic logic can identify both manifest and unmanifest nature.

avivekyadhi :
non detection;
siddhahtraigunyaththadhviparyayabhavath .
axiomatic-triad of forces such reverse non existing
karanaathmakagunahtvath
motive-self-by-the-trad-of-forces
karyasyavyaktamapisiddham .
effect-unmanifest-also-axiomatic-analytical-process.

Meaning: Through a process of holistic analytical derivation of
proof it is proved that non detection or detection is due to the
observers inability or ability respectively to detect any or all of
the three modes of exchange or transfer of forces. And the very
process of siddhi or 'holistic analytical derivation of proof' is
itself due to the unmanifest state of the substratum reacting
through the action of the gunas or three modes of transfer of
forces by it's own inner motivation or potential or cause or
interaction to manifest as awareness or consciousness

  Explanation: The important point made here is that siddhi
follows the same fundamental process nature uses in all its
interactions. The process of detection of phenomenon or other
wise is dependant on the observers ability to detect any or all of
the three modes of transfer of forces, as it is proved by analytical
holistic logic that every effect must have a cause or every
reaction must be preceded by action and the detection of effect
or reaction is connected with detecting any of three forces of the
triad. Non detection of phenomenon does not mean a
phenomenon does not exist. While hearing, seeing, smelling etc.
allows the observer to witness certain forms of manifestation,
other senses will expose different levels of phenomenon. The
process of siddhi follows the fundamental interactive rules of the
218
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
triad of forces ,so the logic of the results are the same. Therefore
the corollary is that if by logic a particular state or mode of
phenomenon is derived as a necessary state of existence then
such a state must exist but the observer may not detect it for the
reasons already enumerated above. The nature of transmission of
force are such that manifested matter and phenomenon may not
be detectable and hence can exist in forms and interaction that
are opposite to our current experience such as antimatter, dark or
invisible matter ,black holes and time reversed phenomenon. If
holistic logic predicts a phenomenon, it must exist even though
the senses may not detect it.




219
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 15.
The result of a cyclic force is a natural waveform.

bhedhanam parimanath
changing value of measure
samanvyathshakthitha: pravritheswa .
sequential power           cyclic action
karanakaryavibhagathavibhagadhvaisvarupasya .
cause-effect-attenuation-concentration natural waveform

Meaning: Cyclic interaction at the interface is due to a
sequentially changing value that is due to acceleration or
deceleration of a force . This cyclic action is the cause and effect,
by turns, to attenuate and concentrate (expand and contract or
rarefy and pressurise or decrease and increase density) to
produce a waveform that is of a standard form in nature.
Explanation: Here the characteristics of a dynamic substratum
is being defined. The Gunas, as shown , are the three modes of
variation of a force due to cyclic reversal in an oscillating
volume and when it is applied on a continuous basis a standard
form emerges that is universal. It is an oscillating volume with
standard form , a sperical wave form. In Suthra 30 the time and
cycle characteristics define the mathematical expression
governing the interactive guna states.
The diagram ‘Transmigration of vibratory stresses’ shows the
interactive nature of stresses and how it transmigrates across the
substratum of space. Two spherical interactive forms remain in
the same relative locations when stresses are equal all around it.
On being triggered into an unbalanced state the vibratory stress
forms transmigrate in a direction to equalise. But that process
increases and decreases the vibratory counts by superposition
and rarefaction so that density counts increase and decrease
cyclically. This Suthra defines that very clearly that the
interactive process between components in the substratum
creates varying stresses cyclically. In order to equalise, the
220
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
uneven vibratory stresses in a confined medium, transmigrate
periodically according to the Guna laws of self-similar
proportionality. The transmigration of the composite Guna
ensemble is diagrammatically shown in three sections. The top
and bottom coherent states represent the undetectable aspect in
non accelerated phase. The middle part shows the compressive /
expansive transfers.




             Fig: Transmigrating Vibratory Stresses
The rate of increase and decrease follow the Swabhava mode
mode of simultaneous transfer within the cycle as c1+x as the
incremental rate and c1-x as decreasing rate at the same time in
different regions within the stress domains. Such a process is a
natural way to create waveforms. Two major points are
highlighted through this Suthra. One, no objects or substantial
entities move physically and two, that detecting the repititive
stress forms in the same location gives rise to the idea of
substantial process. If vibratory stresses oscillate in the same
location it is seen as an objective particle. In case it
transmigrates it gives the impression a dynamic waveform.


221
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                            Suthra 16.
A first change of phase or fluidic state occurs with rising force.

karanamasthyavyaktham pravarthathey trigunath:
cause-reducing-manifestation initiating triple-guna-action
samudayaccha .
and decelerative action
 parinamath: salilavath
changing state like fluid
prathiprathigunaashryavisheshath .
towards-very –estful-interaction-a-distinctive-phase

 Meaning: In a manifestation of diminishing potential ,the triple
interactive state initiates a restful state of coherence and
synchronisation and a transformation occurs ; a distinctive
change of state, like that of vapour condensing to liquid, takes
place when the inward going force is brought to a very
synchronised (=synchronised therefore static ) state .
Explanation: The reason why the unmanifest substratum
becomes manifest is clearly explained using a principle that is
very well understood today. During the oscillatory cycle if the
decelerating force can be brought to a very restful state a change
of phase occurs thereby increasing density or inertia or mass
such that it becomes detectable or manifest due to the change.
Taking water vapour as an example ,if the temperature which
really is an indicator of the state of oscillation (or energy
content) is brought down to state where the rate is lowered to the
point of relative rest or zero temperature the vapour condenses
into water which is now detectable as a different unit or element.
In the next Suthra the same logic is continued to show that from
the liquified state a condensed core state or solid phase change
occurs.


222
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 17.
The second change of phase creates the solid or nuclear state.

samghathaparaarthathvath
collision-background-cause of
thrigunaadhiviparyayadhadhishthaanaath .
guna-interaction-start-reversal-of-starting location
purusho’asthibhokthrabhavath
nucleus-resting-absorbing-action
kaivalyaarthapravritheshwa .
unhindered-potential-of-cyclic-action

Meaning: The nucleus is the location, centre or core that holds
the power, force or energy produced as a result of the cyclic
collision or aggregation due to close contact, back to back, of the
oscillating volumes or waveforms , initiated or triggered into
action by the operating principle of the triad of forces, in a
relatively isolated , static, unhindered state of freedom .
 Explanation: Recalling that from Suthra 8 to 11 ,the inability of
the observer to detect, measure or deal with the substratum in
anyway was not possible due to the relative nature of detection
itself ,but theoretically sets out a procedure to prove the
existence of the substratum by logical inference. Here again, the
nuclear or core region logically must be a part of the substratum ,
but not being detectable directly, this Suthra establishes the
nature of this core as a pure potential or sole repository of the
force or energy in a completely restful state but makes it clear
that it seems restful only because it is the region of continuous
collisions or close contacts with numerous waveforms, which are
the only detectable forces by the observer. The Suthra has
portrayed a picture of a number of volumetric waveforms in a
dynamic oscillating state colliding cyclically or periodically and
the region where such action takes place is the holder or
container of power in a static form and in a relatively restful
state, due to the operating principle of the gunas; which means
223
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the core or nucleus is a holistic crest of a wave where the density
is high hence has a mass only due to accumulation of all the
oscillations in that region in a smaller region for a certain
proportion of time. Nowhere in the Suthra is there a reference to
the substratum or any matter of any form, to give the nucleus the
quality of solidity massiveness and the like that normal common-
sense attitudes require. At the observed level the confinement of
water under pressure produces the isolation of the nucleus into
regions of strong bonding or rigid states thus creating the solid
phase while the individual regions are in state of attenuated
oscillation.

Summarising: The Purusha or nucleus is the region in which a
periodic collection of waveforms due to the mode of action of
the gunas seem to be in a static state of dormant potential in the
undetectable ,absolute subtratum that is omnipresent, omnipotent
and omniscient and the period being determined solely by the
time constant referred to in suthra 3 and forms the self potential
refereed in suthra 2. b therefore from the above it can be
concluded that the nucleus is a synthesised permanent region in
the absolute sense and therefore it can never be detected in a
direct or measurable way. there will always be a nucleus or
Purusha.




224
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




225
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                        Suthra 18.
18. Logical proof that the nucleus is a conglomerate entity.

jananamaranakaranaanam
creation-decay-activity-consequence
prathiniyamaadhayugapath pravrittheswa .
general-rule-not-simultaneously cyclic-action
Purushabahuthvam siddham
nucleus-plurality        logical proof
thrigunyaviparyayachaiva.
Triad-of-forces-inversion-the only cause.

Meaning: Since the causative action leading to aggregation and
dissolution or creation and destruction are not simultaneous or
instantaneous at the nuclear interface. The axiomatic conclusion
is that there must be many nucleii or individual core components
(Purusha) and also because the reversal of interactions of the
triad of forces (gunas) produce multiple types of phenomenon
whereas it should have been singular, otherwise.
Explanation: The logic of this Suthra is extremely profound and
establishes the error in the interpretation of other vedic works
that have led to the identification of the Purusha as the soul of
human beings specifically whereas the logically derived
meaning shows very clearly that in any interraction if there is a
delay in the cause-effect or action-reaction cycle it is only due to
the effect of the nucleus or a self-supportive entity- the Purusha.
(The concept of a distinctive human soul brought about the
necessary reverential connection to the unitary SOUL that
operated beyond the bounds of human logic.) The action
reaction cycle being operated by a unitary principle of
polarisation, as Gunas, would logically produce a unitary class
of results if the nucleus were also classified as a unitary or solid
type. But the observations show the opposite and the nucleus
being the provider of the static or passive background potential
the conclusion logically must be that the nucleus as a class
226
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
cannot be of a unitary type. To provide the basis for the many
varieties of manifestations the nucleus must be classified as a
pluralistic category. Hence the nucleus must contain many
Purushas or many combinations of nuclei or elementary articles.




227
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 19.
The complex nuclear state forms the background for
        manifestation of phenomenon.

thasmacchaviparyasath siddham
from previous and conversely holistic proof
sakshithvamasya         purushasya .
forming background state nuclear region
kaivalyam madhyastam
unhindered neutral state
drishtarthvamakarthrabhavashwacha .
detectable-reference-ground-state

Meaning: From previous Suthras, the conversely inferential
holistic conclusion is      that the nuclear state forms the
background state with particulate or inertial mass, in which it is
relatively seen as being neutral, unhindered and neutral state to
measure against..
Explanation: The Gunas or the triad of forces were identified
with the wave forming characteristics ,wherein Thaama had
qualities that were the opposite of the other two. Raja and
Sathwa were relatively dynamic states. Raja formed the bridge or
connection between outer and inner regions while the nucleus
formed a central core drawing itself in to form a more dense and
massive state. The Sathwa balanced the different forms actively
across extended boundaries while becoming less dense. The
core region with the opposite qualities became the necessary
supportive framework for manifestation to occur like the inert,
supportive canvas backing for a painting or the light reflecting
screen for projecting a movie film. Without the core or nuclear
structure manifestation or phenomenon could not have taken
place meaningfully. Yet the nucleus or Purusha was not the
fundamental substratum but was only a passive third partner in
an interactive triad of forces all arising out of the substratum.
more.
228
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 20.
The state of sustained interraction is a state of balance

thasmathath samyogadhachethanam
therefore       association-static-inert-state
chethanavadhiva lingam .
dynamic-as-if          characterised
gunakarthathvey cha thattha
action of gunas      and thus
kartheva            bhavathithyudhasina: .
dwindling-action-a-if existence-neutralised.

Meaning: Because of the proximity of the static and dynamic
states, the static state seems dynamic, through the action of the
gunas The dynamic seems to behave in a neutral mode that
maintains a balance.
Explanation: The relatively static nucleus and the dynamic
surface( of the oscillating volume) attain a state of balance
through the interraction of the triad of forces. Therefore
relatively the impression is given that the static nucleus is
dynamic and the dynamic surface is static while in the balanced
state. Moreover , unlike the normal experience, a state of
balance is a state of dynamic interraction to sustain a static or
equalised displacement on a continuous basis. Therefore a state
of balance is a dynamic interactive state wherein all the
measurable parameters are the SAME and therefore seem
STATIC . The active force or prakriti seems static and the static
nuclear region seems active. There is synthesis of two different
qualities into one unitary state and therefore could form or
assume the fundamental status or role of ground state. more




229
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 21.
Measurement or detection of phenomenon at the fundamental
         level. _

purushasya dharshanaartha kaivalyaartha
nuclear state detection-potential unhindered- potential
tatha    pradhanasya .
therefore fundamental manifested state .
pangvandhavadhubhayorapi
lame-blind –interdependance-similarly
samyogasthath kritha: sargah: .
combination thus proceeds manifestation

Meaning: Fundamental measurement of phenomenon references
nuclear potential in an unhindered and synchronised state.
Therefore the synchronised nuclear state provides the basic
background to detect or measure the first, (primary or
fundamental) active (manifested) state as a comparative or
relative difference. Manifestation of phenomenon proceeds on
the principle of fulfilling the need to maintain a balance like
when a blind man and lame man team up to behave normaly and
effectively. From this combination all manifested proceeds.
Explanation: All phenomenon is a holographic presentation. It
is the unsynchronised state of vibrations that is detected. But the
substratum is not detected always. Yet it is in a dynamic
vibratory state. Hence there must be a situation where it is active
yet does not display or manifest. This theorem shows how it is
always dynamic yet is in a free or unhindered or isolated state
from the surrounding environment.
Suthra 21 sets out an actual example of the association of two
men, one lame and the other blind to bring home the point of not
only control, but also the factors of dynamic and static state in a
synchronous mode, the interdependance of relative motion in an
interaction, the nonexistence of time as an operating part of
reality and the total freedom in the static state.
230
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Here the principle of uncertainty is explained. Like the blind
man has to await the visual instruction of the lame man, sitting
on his shoulders, the lame man has to wait for the blind man to
move before he can give a renewed set of instructions. If these
reciprocal events of cause/effect or action/reaction take some
time the observer has no way of finding out the intervening
events. As an example, let us imagine the lame man gives
instructions to the blind man to move a certain distance at a
certain rate and direction and as he starts to take a step along a
weak bridge, a section just in front falls off. Unless the lame man
is able to assess this situation fast enough to give timely
instruction to the blind person before his next step he will
stumble into the gap. This example shows a number factors
involved in control.
Seeing and moving are interactive and synonymous with
detection and movement ; detection itself consists of a 'seeing'
and 'informing' activity while movement has two phases of
'responding' and ' initiating'. In this sequence of four steps, three
are internal and until the actual detectable movement starts, there
is complete uncertainty of the state of this interval. In the next
sequence the past action would be completed and if continued
the overlapping nature may hide the actual discrete nature of
activities required to keep the duo in motion.
That is why the prediction of events in the intervening period
depends on the trends of the previous confirmed events and
statistical methods have to be resorted to. Also the detection of
the event is made possible only because there is a synchronised
background of the nucleus; only against which the process of
measurement or detection can be made meaningfully to initiate
consequent action. Restating the above differently it becomes
evident that the fundamental substratum is not static yet it
resembles a static state because of synchronisation, balance and
coherence.
It is not detectable because there is no externally radiated
information ( and what happens internally the observer has no
way of confirming) and when it (substratum) polarises into the
231
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
synchronised (and therefore a relatively static) potential and the
unsynchronised kinetic dynamic phase due to a self-similar
divisional mode, the first evidence of manifestation is available
to the observer because the instantaneous action/reaction cycle
now is delayed in attaining a balance, which then propogates a
chain of interractive events in its effort to attain a balanced state
or a state in which the nett action/ reaction energy or the nett
time interval is zero at some level.
Most important: this suthra lays the foundation for the dynamic,
selfsimilar and selfsufficient state that forms the relatively
"static" background in a dynamic state. Against which detection
of manifested phenomenon could be meaningfully interpretted
and understood. The unhindered or free manifested state of the
dynamic substratum must be due to an inherent quality that
while making it the first or primary manifested state, it is still
not detectable because it neither takes or gives out energy and
therefore seems to be static and undetectable. The next suthra
reveals this profound state in mathematical terms. It is the
"ekanthathyanthathobhavath" of the very first suthra.
The reader should not the special effort taken to explain the
nuclear state in 5 Suthras (17,18,19,20 & 21). It is to highlight
the extraordinary nature of the nuclear phenomenon. Maharishi
Kapila takes the nucleus as the central, fundamental, important
and "background forming" phenomenon and makes it very clear
that its characteristics are not a fundamental but a relative state
due to the dynamic nature of the substratum and the nucleus is
also a manifested or a locally created phenomenon but with the
opposite qualities in relation to the active prakrithi, which is also
a manifested phenomenon. The subtratum is the only absolute
and permanent state and therefore undetectable and
unmeasurable. To reiterate, in suthra 17, the solid nature is a
state similar to condensation, where the displacement is below
detectable limits ( and hence seems to be one solid unit). In
suthra 18, holistic logic is used to dispel any lingering doubt that
the nucleus is a singular, particulate, solid component because,
only the components of the substratum could have this quality,
232
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
but because of this very quality the substratum becomes
undetectable. The nucleus is detectable as a result of the
interraction with the active prakriti, but because such reactions
are not always the same it must be concluded that the nucleus
has different characteristics        submerged in an apparently
singular, "solid" state. Further a very important point is
emphasised here - the nucleus is not the ultimate particle or
entity or component of the substartum. In suthra 19, the
apparently static, conglomerate nuclear body or entity forms the
reference or background or zero potential state, only against
which any measurement or detectable parameter can be
meaningful, like a voltage has a zero reference point, or height
of a building refers to ground level and so on. It is obvious that
there is no other choice when the substratum is not detectable
and the active parakriti is ever mobile, whereas the nucleus is
relatively static and detectable by comparative methods. In
Suthra 20, the starting point for detection or measurement is
established by bringing about a synthesis between the static
nucleus and dynamic prakriti when both seem to be the same or
each one has the opposite qualities and this is when both are in a
state of interractive balance.It is very evident that the two states
are not unique elementary objects formed once and for all BUT
actually two complementary states that are formed and reformed
interchangeably! In suthra 21, the highly complex phenomenon
of the nuclear state is designated the role of the fundamental
state from which and only from which the observor can detect
and measure and understand phenomenon in a correct and
meaningful way. Therefor the ground state is an apparently
synthesised manifestation of static and dynamic states in
interactive balance.
The reason for the existence of the principle of uncertainty in
confirming the manifested parameters is given by fundamental
logic.most importantly, it shows the need for the prime dynamic
selfsufficient state to explain all phenomenon.
Summary note: the undetectable substratum comprising
limitless,undefinable components in a dynamic synchronised
233
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
state and therefore undetectable, polarises into static and
dynamic states through nonsynchronisation              caused by
obstruction and becomes manifested or detectable or measurable
and the value of the measurerable parameter is related to the
nuclear state when in a state of balance or synchronisation with
the active dynamic polarised element. the above is very relevant
to current concepts in physics. the nucleus is identified as a
conglomerate structure and nested into various sub nuclear
energy levels comprising the baryon spectrum of
mesons,quarks,bosons etc, all of which are not normally
detectable unless interracted in high energy accelarators. the
atomic spectrum, being the stable manifested phenomenon,
comprises the nucleus (Purusha) as the massive static hadronic
component kept in balance or synchronous state (Thaamasic),
by the dynamic, leptonic component (prakriti in the satvic state)
through interractive mediation of the basic field made detectable
by the electromagnetic oscillatary phenomenon of photons (vritti
in the rajasic state) , through emanations at the first level
corresponding to the compton wavelentgh Thaamas are all
purely relative to the Purusha and being              the nuclear
phenomenon, its absolute level depends entirely on the
observers sensitivity to discriminate changes at the subtlest level.
the same relative set repeats itself ad-nauseum as nested levels
of manifestation; and as a result the same set of mathematical
laws apply at all levels and the scale is time symmetric.
holistically its like looking at a spaceship vanishing into the
distance and       while the image of the ship diminishes
proportionately the observer can rest assured the same set of
mathematical rules are in operation, in it, all the while and will
always be so, even when the ship becomes a mere dot.




234
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 22.
Mathematical derivation of the dynamic selfsimilar state.

Prakrithermahamasthaatho’ahankar-
oscillatory intense expanding moving continuously self acting
asthasmaadhgannaschashodashaka: .
expanding in this way calculated and sixteenth diffusing
thasmadhapi shodashakaath panchabhya :
in this way also sixteenth binds fifth power encircles
panchabhoothani .
the 5 levels of manifestation.

Meaning: By the action of the primary force a self sustaining
oscillatory state is established from which a series of measurable
or detectable signals are radiated at a value that is a sixteenth of
the primary value and in a progressive series incremented to the
sixteenth level that binds or condenses phenomenon through
five levels into five sets of manifested phenomenon.
Explanation: This is the most important theorem in the science
of unification of all phenomenon in the universe. As a first step
the holistic equation set up in this Suthra in the latter part will
be presented in a graphical way to make it understandable.




                    Fig: Self-similar Interaction.
Self-similarity, acting instantly in a confined region, is controlled
by a single ratio that operates in 3 Guna modes.
235
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The piston in the middle of the cylinder is retained in position by
equal pressures on both sides. If the piston has to move then the
pressure on one side has to increase while at the same moment
the pressure must decrease in the same ratio within the same
period on the other side.
The two diagrams show the possible movements that can be
defined by the same mathematical expression. The thin arrows
show expansion and the thick ,compression. The important point
to focus on is that both expansion and compression must take
place at the same time or simultaneously. That expansion is an
incremental function while compression is a decreasing function
at the same instant of time and the relative proportion must also
remain the same to produce that movement. Though the cylinder
is a volumetric space the degree of movement can be expressed
as a linear ratio as the areas on either side of the piston remain
the same. If the amount of change from midposition is y then the
equation can be represnted by:
Equation S 22.




The first row shows the sum and difference caused y. The second
row shows the rate of change as a proportion that must be equal,
at the same time. The third row shows a limiting condition for
the value of y to be precisely evaluated. Though numerous

236
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
equations emerge as a corollary with exceptional predictability,
solving the above by the sum of squares gives :
Equation S.22 A. Derivation of self similar value is shown.




The solution shows the ratio equals the golden mean where
x=0.618034. The process of binding or encircling is created if
resonant oscillatory action is maintained at the ratio of x. Using
the self similar ratio in an iterated mode creates the ratio π . The
algorithm is shown below.
Equation. S 22. B. Derivation of the ratio of circumference to
diameter is shown below.




Equation S.22.C. The solution to any iterative level is shown.




237
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
 Taking the limit of ½ 3 =1/8 then the sum =1/16 . Factoring 8 in
a self similar way gives 5/8 and 3/8 approx. in the same
proportion as x and x2 . Then 16-3=13 and 8+5=13 and 8+3=11
and 16-5=11. Thes values become the power index in
simultaneous interactions. The mechanism of how the Purusha
amd moolaprakrithi states maintain the oscillatory state
perpetually is derived in later Sutras. But this Sutra lays the
foundation for the manifestation process. The electromagnetic
spectrum is formed by the polarisation process derived above as
the electric field at the 11th. power index and the magnetic field
at the 5th.
Explaining the process specifically, the Purusha forming the
background or ground state , polarises the interactions along two
axis into 8 +8=16 orders . Then 8+3 =11 = 16-5 orders form the
expansive or accelerative states while 8-3 = 5 = 16-11 orders
form the compressed or superposed and accelerative states.
These indices are the electric and magnetic polarisation of the
field and as the superpositioning densities increase the
characteristics of manifestation changes into five levels .
. The sequential increment in rate of oscillation as logarithms to
a cyclic (yuga) base of 10.




      Fig: Self-similar Resonant Combinations.
238
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Sequence n+1 = 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 phases in cycle = 10
Increment n x ( n + 1 ) x 1/2 = 1        3      6 10 value of
increment. Combining to get even index for divisibility
(1 + 3 = 4 =2+2) (3 + 6 = 9=4.5+4.5)         ( 6 + 10 = 16=8+8)
Equation. S.22.D. The spectrum of electromagnetic phenomenon
is shown below as two phases in the Raja as 5 orders and Sathwa
as 11 orders of interactive counts per cycle.




239
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 23.
Ascertainment by axiomatic mathematical logic.

adhyavasayo buddhirdharmo jnanam
ascertainment intellectual-axiomatic knowledge
viraga     aisvaryam.
obectivity power level
sathvikamethadhrupam
expansive-is-this-mode
thaamasamasmadviparyastam.
Contractive-therefore-reverse

Meaning: Intellectual logical confirmation process involves the
application of axiomatic law in an expansive mode, backed with
knowledge, flexibility to change scales and ratios in the order
of powers      whereas the opposite contractive, inverted and
fractionising concepts lead to misconceptions and errors of
judgement.
Explanation: The form of logic that should be used for
obtaining proof or verification is given as a holistic process using
expansive mathematical logic in the order of powers or
exponential ratios. In simple terms fractional or decimalistion
techniques of mathematical logic would result in erroneous
concepts and would not help in deriving the correct proof. As
indicated in the beginning the logic was to breakdown
manifestation to the lowest common factor and use it as the
logical yardstick. Hence one becomes the logical choice for a
numerical yardstick . Fractional numbers are open ended in the
diminishing scale and therefore do not provide a natural limit as
the number one. One is to be seen as the ratio of two or more
equal components or numbers , like 2/2 or infinity/infinity are
equal to one but normal mathematical logic implies that all
numbers are indeed related to one; such as 2/1 or infinity/1
maintain the individual values. Therefore one is, repeat one is,
the smallest number. Holistic logic then uses one as the smallest
240
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
unit of measure. Any small fractional number can be converted
by reciprocalisation into its unit relationship. The proportionality
of numerical relationsghips can be maintained by the power or
exponential relationship. Like 1.2599 cubed is 2 and 2 cubed is
8. Therefore using 2 as the equivalent of 1.2599 would yield the
same ratio as 8 to 2, so a fraction of 1.2599 is avoided. What is
the advantage? The most complex calculations can be
accomplished mentally for one thing and incidentally one does
not need logarithmic and trignomic tables in mathematical
calculations and the associated errors existing at the limit of its
proportionality. The spectrum of vibrational combinations is
shown using integers: A cycle has 10 levels and maximum of 50
on each side is reached at balance by combining odd and/or
even states. It applies to the periodic and particle spectrum.
If odd numbers are added as 1+3+5+7+9=25 and repeat it as
adescending scale then 1+3+5+7+9+9+7+5+3+1=50, gives the
maximum spread of spectral scales without reapeating.
1          3            5           7          9           =25
9          7            5           3          1           =25
10         10           10          10         10          =50
2          2            2           2          2           =10
Even numbers add up but the harmonics gets submerged in ir
2             4              6            8             =20
8             6              4            2             =20
10            10             10           10            =40
2             2              2            2             =8
The coherent spectrum is contained in 8 and the radiant spectrum
in 10.




.

241
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 24.
Mathematical description of internal field force as a spectrum.

Abhimano’ahankaarastasmadhvividhah:
Self-potential--self-action-proceeds-polarisation
pravarthathey rag.
interactive       spectrum.
ekaadhashakaschagannas thanmaathra:
elevenfold as calculated potential fieldforce
panchakaschaiva.
set of five

Meaning: Energy of an interaction is polarised into two aspects
of self organised static potential and self- acting dynamic force
that initiates the entire spectrum of energy interactions extendng
to a range of 11 steps whereas the static self potential and
dynamic self-action ( or kinetic self-similar force or energy)
form a balanced set of two factors which initiate action. In the
dynamic self-action mode it expands in sequential steps to a limit
of 11 sequential levels. Whereas the contracting static potential
state reaches a limit of 5 sequential levels.

Explanation:
5 LEVELS 8 + 3= 11 8 - 3 = 5. 11 + 5 = 16 = 8 + 8
Internal state is 3 (Cubic or three axis synchronised)
Abhimano = 8 - 3 = 5 the superpositing of vibrations internally
(magnetic count)
Ahankar = 8 + 3 = 11 the expansion by acceleration extenally
(electric count)
The internal cycle has 4 levels . As shown in Suthra 23 1& 3 and
& 4 willcombine
1 + 3 = 4 = 2 + 2 is balanced and next 6+10 = 16 = 8 + 8 is also
balanced.
But between 3 and 8 the balance is upset as follows

242
     Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Thaama 8 – 3 = 5. 8 – 4 = 4  8–5=3         8–6=2 8–7=
1 8 –8 = 0
Sathwa 8 + 3 = 11 8 + 4 = 12 8 + 5 = 13 8 + 6 = 14 8 + 7 =
15 8 + 8 = 16
                             8 3                    8 3
                ABHIMAN                 AHANKAR
                              16                     16
                    6
                                             11
                                                        5
                    4
              8 3
         N.
               16
                    2


                    0
                        0      5            10          15
                                      8 3
                                   N.
                                       16

          Fig: Abhimaan Ahankar Polarisation Graph
The count rate inwards decreases as it goes towards the first
positon and increases outwardly. The potential difference gets
less towards the centre and is a maximum at the unity cycle
boundary.
1+3=4                3+3=6                  6 + 10 = 16




        Fig: The Mahad Vikrithi Vrithi Polarisation State
(2 + 2 = 4 = 2 x 2) (8 - 3 = 5and 8 + 3 =11) (8 + 8 = 16)
(Yugapac state) (Abhiman and Ahankar state) (Vritti state )
   (Oscillator) (electro-magnetic-state resonant-state) (photon)
This is an important theorem explaining the internal
selfsustaining oscillation due to the permutation and combination
243
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of the Sathwa, Raja and Thaama Guna polarisation mode. The
electromagnetic phenomenon is mathematically shown to be a
vibratory interaction of the components of the substratum. This
theorem explains the Maxwells electro-magnetic phenomenon in
the simplest axiomatic way at the fundamental level in space.
The above statements of axiomatic logic cannot be disproved
and it holds good only if the substratum is composed of Purusha
as the passive supportive components. It shows how the state of
the components always combine to maintain a 1 by 2
relationship to maintain the oscillatory rate of C. It also shows
that a radiated vritti or photon is initiated by an increase in its
Sathwa internal stable count rate of C at the 8th.power to the 11th.
power, equal to the electric field intensity, by an interactive shift
in its internal rate from C to the 5 th. power of Thaama rate that is
the equivalent magnetic intensity or superposed or masslike state
. It is a compensatory self similar exchange. Hence the Vritti or
photon could be sustained to the extent of the 11th. power
increase in rate. But a radiating Vritti or photon must have a self-
sustaining form which could be ensured only by a minimum of
two axis synchronising or acting simultaneously. Then the count
increases to 11+5 = 16 the accelerated power index or 16th.
power. Therefore it is the maximum number of counts that cound
be radiated at a time. If it increases from 16 to 24 by the third
axis synchronising then the rate of count ransmisiion drops to
zero because the potential or motivating action is reduced to nil
as it becomes internal. From a position of two axis acting
simultaneously the potential is maximum but steadily decreases
to zero when the 3rd. axis synchronises.
At the fundamental level that is always in a dynamic state there
are two polarised states of internal dynamic activity. In the static
or synchronised state, energy of selfaction is in the compressive
or contracted thaamasic state and in the dynamic or kinetic phase
it acts in an expansive or radiant satwic mode. The interactive
rajasic state is an imbalance between these two states or
phases,.It is the cause of manifestation. The expansive phase
forms an incremental sequence of 11 steps or states whereas the
244
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
contractive mode reaches a limit of 5 levels. Because the creative
interactive state is always in a dual state of oscillatory balance it
is necessary to define it by a mathematical sequence that allows
it. Odd states can never reach a balance . So a balanced state can
be stablished if the sequence is always an integer number
divisible by
two. Such a logic is ensured by the expression (N2 + N) x 1/2
= Y. Let us take the first pair of 1 and 3 to form the interactive
state. The sum 1 + 3 = 4 and can be divided by 2 . 2 + 2 = 4 =
2 x 2. 3-1 =2 and 1+1 =2. From Suthra 30 we learn that
instantaneous interactions are multiplicative or logarithmic while
sequential action is additive. The first combination 1 + 3 = 4 =
(1 + 1 = 2 = 3 - 1) has a unique characteristic. Product 2 x 2 =4
and sum 2 + 2 = 4are equal. It means that at the level of the first
combination the instant and period are both equal. In terms of the
Guna interaction the compressive Thaama 2 x 2 equals the
expansive Sathwa 2+2. The Raja Guna is zero (4-4 = 0).
Therefore the reaction is nil or there is no detectable time
involved or the energy exchanged in the dual mode is equal. The
interactive cycle is closed and self sufficient. No energy (force)
etc is either absorbed nor radiated. it is instantaneous and not
detectable bcause no energy transfer from or to an external
source is involved. This phase is in perpetual oscillation . This
state cannot occur again because the product of integer numbers
above 2 cannot equal the sum of such numbers and therefore the
Rajasic state is not zero or the interactive state is manifest ,
exchanges energy with external environment and is propagative.
It is leve 1.If we take the next pair of 3 + 6 = 9 . It is not an
integer number when divided by 2 and cannot form a stable
state . It has to be confined or structured from external sources to
remain in a stable state. It is AN odd sequence. It can combine
internally.Then we take the next set 6 and 10. The sum is 6 + 10
= 16 and the sequence is 8 + 8 = (6+2) + (10 -2 ). It can be in a
stable state. The product 4 x 4 = 16. The ratio of product to sum
is 16 / 16 = 1 or the cycle is complete and but the duration is 4 /

245
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
8 =1/2. The relative energy level is ½ x ½ = ¼. It is at level 2.
The Raja state is ( 4 x 4 ) –( 8 + 8) = 0. Consider numbers 10
+15 = 25 . Since the quotient is not an integer when divided by
two it cannot be stable as it is an odd sequence. It can combine
with others. But 15 +21 = 36 and forms an equalised set of 18
+18. It can be stable and the ratio 6 x 6 =36 = 18 + 18. The
Raja state is ( 6 x 6 ) - (18+18) = 0 .




246
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                           Suthra 25.
Expansive interaction rises to 11th. Power

Sathvika ekadhashakah:
expansive elevenfold
pravarthathe vaikrthadh ahankarath .
initiating        acceleration self-action
bhuthaadhis      thanmatra:
elemental mass ; elemental vortex or particle
sa thaamasas thaijasadh ubhayam.
with contractive    interactive both

Meaning: The expansive sathwik self active state has a set of
eleven levels of accelerative change that creates elemental states
with     super-positioning modes and self sustaining units of
activity or vortex. The compressive thaamasic change initiates
through interactive combinations of both the raja and sathwa
states.
Explanation: The expansive sathvik mode increases from its
balanced internal oscillatory count rate of C at power index 8
(Suthra 22) to power index 11 (Suthra 23) 8 + 3 = 11 and is an
accelerative radiating unit containing a selfsustaing vortex
created by combinational interactions with the Thaama
compressive state and Raja polarising modes.
8+3=11 16-11=5 5+11= 16 c2 4π2 / 7 = Vrithi = photon The
electromagnetic interaction leading to the radiation of a Vritti or
photon is explained in this Suthra. The normal internal
interaction is balanced within a unit cycle time but the Raja
interactive state combines with the Thaama state to increase the
Sathwa acceleration sufficiently to allow the radiation of a Vritti
or photon. It means that the cycle time must be greater than
circumferential period . The balanced period is given as 7 units
or 8 –1 =7 but the vibrations along the two axis must increase its
rate to exceed the radius to circumference ratio of 2 π along both
247
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
axis at the same time. That (2 π x 2 π) = 4 π2 = 39.48 times
normal rate at the cycle time when the Thaama superpositioning
density rises to its maximum level. The timing logic is dealt with
in Suthras 65 to 68 and the time involved gives an acceleration
rate consistent with 5.64 x C4




248
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 26.
 Efferent and afferent sensory systems.
buddhindhriyani chaksu:
sensory-responses observable;
srothraghraanarasanasparshanakani.
sound-smell-chemical-contact-defined
vakpanipaadhapaayupasthan
oscillatory, interactive exchange transporting
expell or radiate regenerate or create
karmendrayanyahuh.
action responses defined

Meaning: Efferent or input sensory responses are light, sound,
smell, chemical (taste) and contact (touch) and the afferent
output or action responses are defined as oscillatory (speech),
exchanging (grasping), transporting (walking), expelling
(excretory) and creative (regenerative) functions.
  Explanation: This verse identifies the human efferent and
afferent sensory responses as an extension of a generalised
principle arising out of the classification of five levels of
externalised incremental changes resulting in these responses . It
applies to all manifestation processes, including humans, organic
and inorganic spectrum. The five levels are dealt with in later
suthras at the relevant interactive level. Broadly, the volumetric
interactions create changes in density in three modes which have
the effects listed above. Sight is affected by the linear
characteristics of radiation, hearing by the                surface
characteristics of a moving field of air, smell by the vapourous or
ionised state of objects, taste by th chemical characteristics and
touch by the thermal or vibratory state of objects. The human
senses establishes the connection with phenomena and thereby
identifies its nature and characteristics. While most translators
have interpreted Sankhya as applicable to human problems, in
reality it is about universal forces.

249
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                           Suthra 27.
 Interactions in the sensory systems.
ubhayathmakamathraman
duality in internal functions in effect – mind
sankalpakamindriyam ca sadharmayath.
Autonomous-control-senses also resembles
gunaparinamavisheshaananathvam
interactive-exchange-gunas-spectrum-variety
bahyabheddascha .
external-interactive-exchanges

Meaning: Mind or the cerebral system is capable of processing
both the efferent or incoming input sensory information and
afferent or outgoing action oriented outputs and it can produce a
specific output despite the diversity created by the permutations
and combinations of the internal aspects of the three gunas with
the numerous external incoming signals.
Explanatiom: The cerebral process is defined as functional
process common to all aspects organic life. It is depicted as a
processing system that interactively deals with both incoming
and outgoing information through one guna combinatorial law .
It is capable of combining complex multiple inputs to process
interactively and output a unified or varying result for initiating
action. It again is a generalised theorem of a universal process of
cerebral functions and includes humans too.
The universal process of thinking is shown graphically. The two
interactive states of afferent and efferent process follow the guna
interactive laws. While the human process of thinking is more
complex, other organic living entities too follow the same
principles. Information is collected, interpreted and activated in
the same manner. The sensory systems as developed are in
response to the laws of nature and governed by the Guna
principles of interactive exchange.

250
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




          THE DECISION MAKING PROCESS.


  Knowledge.           Buddhi          Siddhi
  memory,              Thaama          Sathwa
  Wisdom,
  ESP

                                                  Senses, sight,
                            Balance,              Smell, taste,
                            Raja                  Touch,
         Analyse,                                 Hearing.
         Synthesize,
         Conclude,
         Meditate,
                                       Decision




                      Actions, grasping,
                      Moving, expelling
         Fig. The Cerebral Process Based On Gunas.
                      Regenerate,
                      comunicate




251
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 28..
The five levels of vrithi activities.

shabdadishu panchanam-
sound-onwards sequence of five
alochanamatramishyate vritti:.
observable-measure-of-action vortex
vachanadhanaviharanothsargaanandhascha
oscillatory-interactive-transporting-radiation-regeneration
cha panchanam
are sequence of five .

Meaning: The five types of sensory input signals are activated
by discrete quantum of forces and it results in five categories of
output as oscillatiory, interactive, transporting, radiating and
creative activities.
Explanation: The spectrum of outputs from a processed input
consisting of information received as sound, light, smell, taste or
touch through its respective interactive processes results in
outputs that generates sound oscillatory reactions as speech.
Light, smell, taste and touch related information received in its
respective forms stimulate responses that relates to grasping,
locomotion, expelling and regenerative functions. The above
process relates to all formas of life which also relates to human
responses. The concept behind Suthra 27 and 28 is that the
cerebral process is an organised system to deal with information
functions that come from the interactive field of phenomena. The
cerebral system is a response-related reactive system that
immediately processes action-related information logically and
correctly to initiate activity at the right level, within the required
time. The five sensory signals are in real terms the state of the
field in space. It is affected by the nuclear core state and the
numerical derivation would be carried out after the 68 th Suthra
that defines the perpetual oscillatory process.

252
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 29.
Definition of self similar internal activity and radiation

svalakshanyam vrittistrayasya
self-similarity    cyclic-vortex-third-power
seyisha           bhavathyasamanya.
yet moving together functions-in-different-modes
samanyakaranavrithi :
synchronously-acting-cyclic-vortex
praanaadhya vaayava:       pancha.
energy-current radiation-unit fifth-power.

Meaning: The cyclic vortex functions on self similar principles
upto the third power , is nonsynchronous, and yet interacts
internally together in an various way. But in the synchronous
accelerated state at the fifth power it becomes a fundamental
unit of energy radiation.
Explanation; The internal cyclic interactions upto the third
power functions on self similar principles that is in a resonant
manner. The synchronous non-spherical –ovoid –torroidal shape
of a Vritti or photon is created by accelerated or increased count
rate along two axis simultaneously, equal to (2 π)2 as it has to
radiate outwards and that equals the fifth power. That is the third
power is volumetric and surface acceleration adds 2 orders to
total 5. Again, the generalised principle of vorticullar functions
applies to all levels. The derivation depends on the 68th Sutra and
has     wide ramifications covering the entire spectrum of
manifestation. Spherical harmonic oscillatory follow self similar
interactive rules and is covered mathematically




253
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 30.
Definition of a cyclic vortex         and a spherical      harmonic
           oscillator.

yugapacchathushtashya         thu      vrithi:
instantaneous-cycle-fourth power applies-to cyclic-vortex .
kramasascha thasya         nirdhishta .
sequential      consequently detection .
drishtey tathapiadrishte        trayasya
manifested similarly-such-unmanifest third power
tatpurvika     vrithi.
Previous-source cyclic-vortex

Meaning: When the oscillatory cycle count in all directions act
simultaneously or synchronously and is raised to the 4th. Power,
a cyclic self-supporting vrithi (photon) is formed. When it acts
non-synchronously or sequentially and it becomes detectable and
measurable with a degree of certainty. In the initiating state prior
to the above when the oscillatory count reaches the power of
three and is synchronised and acts simultaneously in all
directions , it is in a self supporting harmoniic oscillatory state
but is not detectable or observable.
Explanation: Instant 1/x = sequence 1+x
Principle of Simultaneity. (instant or inelastic or colliding
interaction) thaamasic
    Principle of Relativity (sequential or elastic or moving or
rebounding or radiating interaction) is satwic
Principle of Resonance ( resonant or shuttling or bonding or
balancing interaction) rajasic
Prior or internal state
Thaama (product of interaction) – ( Sathwa (sum of reactions) +
Raja (resonant))= 0
sequence = 1/x =x/x2= x2/ x3 = x3/ x4 = x4/ x5 = x5/ x6 = x6/ x7 = x7/
x8 = 1 + x

254
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Vrithi Balanced oscillator 24 = 16 = 8 + 8 = 23 + 23 Product
equals sum.
Starting point of detection of activity
Yugapach (Simultaneous) 2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 16 .
Kramasa (Sequence or Periodic) 8 + 8 = 16 = (2 + 2 + 2 + 2 ) +
(2 + 2 + 2 + 2 )
Yugapach / kramasa 4 / 4 = 1 = Resonant static state
Purvika vrithi 3. 23 = 8 = 4 + 4 internal resonance
Simultaneous interactions model—the interactions inside the
earth or sun that’s acting as unit. Or the self energy iside a proton
or electron or photon etc. are all simultaneous.
The volumetric expansion by doubling radius is 8 but its area
increase is 4. The density change is 8 but the area flux density
change is only 4 and the difference creates an inequality that
initiates accelerative changes.




255
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




256
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                            Suthra 31.
The principle of self-similarity is the cause of perpetual internal
             oscillatory state.
svam       svam          prathipadhyanthe
self-similar self-organised all the way to the end
parasparaakuthahethukam                   vrittim.
Mutual-interactive-exchange-selfmotivated- cyclic vortex
purashartha eva hetur
nuclear potential only motivating impulse
na kenacit karyathe karanam.
no other motivating       potential cause
Meaning: The cyclic vortex or spherical oscillator is kept in
continuous interactive exchange upto the very end (limit) only
by the nuclear or core potential developed by the mutual
exchange of internally motivated and triggered self similar and
self organised impulse or force and there is no other external
potential cause.
Explanation: The Principle of self-similarity is explained as an
internal interactive exchange that exists perpetually and the
potential to motivate it is developed by triggering the two
internal states of compression and expansion in mutual exchange
process of coherent potential to kinetic movement. The perpetual
oscillatory state (Sutra 68) is self supporting, self controlling and
self organising . Hence there is no external cause except the
balanced cyclic exchange of compressive and expansive
interactive states carried out in a way to exchange the two modes
of activity following self similar rules of interaction.
1+x = 1/x : (1+x)n = 1/xn : (.5 - x3/2) /.(.5+x3/2) = x




257
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 32.
The static and kinetic potential limits.

karanam        thrayodashavidham
potential-cause thirteenth power
tadhaaharanadhaaranaprakaashakaram .
in-which-it-accelerates-superpositions-radiates
karya           cha tasya dashadhaahaaryam
kinetic-activity consequently is tenth-power -acceleration
dhaaryam          prakashyam cha .
   superpositioning radiation          also.

Meaning: The potential rises to the 13th. Power to accelerate
superpose and radiate. Consequently the kinetic interactive rate
rises to the 10th. Power to accelerate, superpose and radiate.
Explanation: The self similar compression or super-positioning
factor 1+x applied to the normal oscillatorey state of the
substratum raises it to the 13th. power from its expansive and
radiant state of c raised to 1-x. The numbers are log index.




            Green= 8+ 8= 16. Red= 10+ 3= 13. Blue=3
            . Pink=5+5=10. Light-blue=3+3=6


                  Fig: The Radiation Phenomenon
The green 16 represents the interactive value of C2 in the
resonant Raja state. In a balanced state the coherent, perpetual,
self similar interaction polarises the internal state into light blue
3 the expanded Sathwa state and the pink 5 Thaama state. Due to
258
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
an impact from a neighbouring component its light blue 3 adds
to its existing value as 5+5+3 =13. But that shifts the balance
from the previous centred state to blue 3 and red 13. Therefore
the red 13 acts as a simultaneous coherent unit and transfers the
extra 3 to the next unit and returns to its original balance state.
The easily understandable process of transference of counts to
radiate phenomenon is portrayed with extreme clarity.
Converting it to values in physics shows how the
electromagnetic phenomenon functions. Using C as the velocity
of light the following numbers emerge as axiomatic values, for C
is derived .

  C = 296575967                 Cx = 1.7221381E+5

  C2 = 8.79573E+16              C1+x = 5.10744E+13

  C3 = 2.6086E+25               C1-x = 1.722E+3

  Cx-2 Px1/2 =8.9612E-12        1/Cx Px1/2=1.268E-6

  4 π /C1-x = .007297           1/(C1+x k rs)2 = 2.319E-28


Explaining the equations, log C2 16+, log Cx is 5+ and log C1-x
is 3+. The well known constants, permittivity epsilon,
permeability mu, the electromagnetic coupling alpha and lastly
the electron charge in mks units are shown by the side of the
Aharana, Dhaharana Prakashyam and Karanam values all
axiomatically derived. Physical measurements are affected by
the simultaneous coupling constant Px, (not derived because it is
hidden) and the equivalent values are shown as a rigorous
logical derivation.
When two counts act simultaneously in less than 1/C1-x of a
cyclic period the two act as one and reflects as the increase in
259
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
mass. Hence charge beyond (C1+x)2 changes into a mass value.
The same equivalent value is derived in general relativity too to
indicate a mass value in terms of didplacement/length.




260
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                           Suthra 33.
The internal and external potential limits.
Antha: karanam thrividham
the limit of potential third power
dashadhaa baahyam thrayasya vishayaakhyam
tenth power external     triad        detectable-defined
saamprathakaalam bahyam
present-sequential-time external
thrikalamaabhyantharam karanam.
Third-power-of-time-internal bonding

Meaning: The internal limit of potential is at the third power and
the externalising detectable factor defined as existing in present
time is upto the 10th. Power. The third power factor contributes
to internal bonding or it is a limit .
Explanation: The expansion is effected by the 10th. power factor
when the interaction is externalised in real or current time. The
third power imposes a limit on the the interactive state as a
limiting or damping force that cannot exceed the 13th. power
superpositioned state. The internal limit is reached when the
third power of the time interval is reached. Length L equals
velocity into time. Volume is L cubed. If velocity is maximum
then time will be the minimum. Therefore in a real field of space
of L cubed volume the dynamic change is velocity cubed.
Therfore time cubed becomes the minimum. That is any time
less than time cubed becomes the limiting number. A point in
space can be described by time cubed under the defined
circumstances.




261
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




262
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 34.
The potential to act is at the 5th.power level.

buddhindriyaani tesham pancha
motive-sensory-signals increase to fifth power
visheshaaviveshavishayaani.
specific-nonspecific-phenomena.
vagbhavathi shabdavishaya
speechforms relates to sound vibrations
sheshani tu          panchavishayani .
   Remaining concerns all five forms of phenomena.

Meaning: The internal potential to act increases rate to 5th.
power of both the specific and non specific or the observable
and the hidden sensory signals. Sound signals relate to speech or
oscillatory sound functions whereas the rest relate to all the five
observable interactions.
Explananation: The senses respond to the five grades of signals
or stresses from interactive states. While the signals are received
by the respective organs, the interpretation of all are carried out
by the Buddhi, simultaneously. Sensory inputs are received
sequentially but the interpretation has to be carried out at the
same moment for all the different variety coming in, if its
consequences are to be realised and understood meaningfully.
The sounds of the alphabet are heard one after the other but the
meaning of the collective alphabet as a word is decoded by the
Buddhi, by analysing all of it simultaneously.. Hearing the letters
of the alphabet one after another as c a t has no meaning unless it
is realised by the mind that it is the name of a feline animal. The
Buddhi carries out the simultaneous comparisons and compares
with memory to give reaction in a meaningful way. All the other
sensory inputs to follow the same procedure. The cerebral
system to reacts to phenomena in the same way as any organic or
inorganic systems do.

263
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                           Suthra 35.
The formation of a basic field is determined by the 3rd. Order
            damping action.
santha: karanaa bhuddi :
internal interaction coherence
sarvam vishayam avaghahate         yasmath.
all       phenomena plunges-to-a-point forcefully
tasmath trividham karanam dvari
therefore third power bonding     medium
dvarani         sheshani.
user of medium the remaining powers

Meaning: At the point when all measurable interactions plunge
to its limit of stress and form a coherent bond it is a measure of
the effort involved and therefore the third power of this bond
forms the base or medium , the remaining powers of interaction
use this as medium.
Explanation: The coherent level creates the static state that
allows the other non coherent states to plunge or accelerate
towards it and stays with it to form a bond. The third power of
the interactive rate forms a limit and all such states become the
base or ground level to become a medium, on which the
remaining states interact using it as a medium.
It is an explanation for the observed attractive gravitational
action. All vibratory or oscillatory states remain together at one
place or in a bound state when all three axis have the same rate.
A higher rate of vibrations on an object will move towards the
one with a lower rate and interactivel exchange to equalise or
attain an equilibrium state to stay bound or in one location.only




264
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 36.
Decay of radiated phenomenon.

yethey pradhipakalpah :
spectrum radiation-decay-process
paraspara vilakshana gunavishesha:.
mutual     complex          guna specific
kritsnam purushasyartham
total     Purusha potential
prakashya buddhau        prayachhaanti.
manifest   coherent action controlled-final-end

Meaning: Spectrum of light transmission process is a complex
and mutually interactive guna exchange sequence and it is totally
controlled by the Purusha potential and it is the only coherent
motivating factor clearly till its end.
Explanation: Radiated phenomenon must decay because it is
motivated only by the Purusha potential which has a specific
limit.
The complete spectrum of light is transmitted by the mutually
interactive complex guna process and the entire manifestation
sequence is wholly or only due to the Purusha potential and it
provides the motivation for it till its end. It shows light decays
and the motive is provided till its end. The formulation below is
extracted from later Sutras where these parameters are derived
C2 x (4 π2 )/7 = Mps / (my x c3 x k)




265
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 37.
Extraction of potential energy from the Purusha domain.

 sarvam         pratyubhogam yasmath
 comprehensive extraordinary use forcefully
purushasya       saadhyati bhuddhi.
Purusha-potential attainable coherent potential
saiva cha vishinishti          puna:
with also precise trigger input repeated
pradhanapurushantaram sukshamam.
interactions inside the Purusha minute

Meaning: A comprehensive and extraordinary use can be made
in the following way. The potential of the Purusha can be
attained from the minute coherent state hidden inside the
Purusha by repeated precisely triggered inputs to initiate the
primary interactions.
Explanation: Potential energy can be extracted from within the
hidden interior Purusha domain by a process of repeatedly
triggering the primary interactive region with a minute or sharp
or impulse or triggering an input of energy. The mathematical
formulation is derived in the last few Sutras. The perpetual
oscillatory state can be upset by a triggered impulse which then
releases a large amount of energy during the process of
regaining its harmonic oscillatory state.




266
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 38.
Classification of activity of virthi and elements
thanmathranyavisheshastebhyo
self-generated vortex-non specific-order
bhuthani pancha panchabhya.
element       five     fifth order
yeta       smrita vishesha :
spectrum law         species
shantha      ghorascha       muddasca.
synchronised interactive-and superposed

Meaning: The self-generated vortex or vritti has a non specific
or wide range of activity level while the elements are at five
levels upto the fifth power of activity . The spectrum logically
covers the classes of activity states defined as synchronised, non
synchronised / interactive and superposed / coherent .
Explanation: The self generated vortex covers a wide range and
are not confined to any specific order . The elements cover a
distinct or specific sequence of five levels rising upto the fifth
power and it is classified in three specific groups as follows.
When all the three axis synchronise and act together in a
coherent mode it displays high inertial qualities of massive and
ponderous action . The two axis synchrony is highly interactive
and covers a wide range wheras the linear activity confined
individually to a particular axis has a linear, laminar and
synchronised mode of action.




267
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                           Suthra 39.
Genetic code.
sukshma matapitrajah:
field        organic
sahaprabhutaistridhavishesha: syu:.
sustained-energy-source-triple-species bond
sukshmastesham niyatha matapitraja nivartanthe.
 mobile field        constant organic       cyclic

Meaning: The field sustained by the fundamental source of
energy bonds into three organic species. The mobile field is
constant and controlled and the organic states of three species
are cyclic or periodic.

Explanation:

The 23.5 interactions per cycle (ipc) is a fundamental rate of
oscillation within a confined or closed shell. The transition from
23.5 to 259 ipc at the surface gives the transition region. At 23.5
the left and right handed spins or oscillatory transmigratory
movements are combined. The charge differentiation does not
exist below 23.5 ipc but polarises beyond it upto 259 and has its
distinct characteristics established beyond c. Hence similarly
molecular, genetic and other ‘single’ body units below 25 ips
will not display any difference. A virus state is a state below
23.5 and has no sex cahracteracteristics. Beyond it the ‘handed’
difference is exposed and male / female classification
commense. In spontaneous regeneration from space at the
correct environmental conditons a sexeless virus state can
metamorphosise into any sex characteristics. (A particular
variety of frog has been discovered alive deep inside a stone
when broken.)


268
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.


                            Suthra 40.
 Linga state as coherent and superposed oscillations.
purvothpannamashaktham niyatham
source      fallen not bound subdued
mahadhadhisukshamapariayantham.
forces intense to subtlefield at extreme limit
sansarathi nirupabhogam
spectrum      absolute absorption
bhavair      adhivasitham lingham
chargeforms superpositioning mass-characteristics


Meaning; Static mass states are created by maximally absorbing
and superpositioning the entire spectrum of vibratory or
oscillatory states, from the largest and strongest (to the limit)
finest, minutest kinetic charged states.
Explanation: The Linga state is a superpositioned state.
When two states superpose or act simultaneously, the interactive
count of two merges and the count reduces to one but with an
increase in its mass. The higher interactive counts drift towards
the reduced count state. It gives the illusion of attraction towards
an increased mass state.
When displacements due to an interactive change is at a faster
rate than the normal balanced interactive oscillatory state, it piles
up (one on top of another) and many act at one time or
simultaneously giving the effect of an increased force, from the
same component unit. Within the period of a cycle the Linga
state retains it value permanently thereby giving the superposed
state a continuous and permanent value of increased quantum
termed as mass or rest mass in physics. Though superposed and
mass increases the counts get reduced by synchronising and
therefore forms a state of lower activity that allows higher

269
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
interacrive rates to drft towards it and get absorbed. The change
over point is shown below, where n=21.
Equation S40. When the interval is less than the stress value the
counts are absorbed or two axis act simultaneously.




270
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 41.
The need for the substratum as supporting framework for
         manifestation.

chitram yathaashrayamrithe
picture for instance-support-framework
sthanvadibhiyo yatha       vina chaaya.
Post             for instance without shadow
thadhvina visheshairna
so without specific -not
thisthathi nirashrayam         lingham.
   as required without resting place synchronised state

Meaning: Just as it is not possible to present a picture without a
supporting base nor cast a shadow without an appropriate post,
so also it is impossible to have the synchronised and
superpositioned coherent state without the required supportive
base.
Explanation: This Suthra emphasises the logical need for a
supporting base . An object does not need a support as it has an
existence on its own due to its structure or contents. But a
drawing must have a paper or canvas or supporting framework
of some kind that would be used to project the drawing. A
shadow by its very nature is dependant on an object to obstruct
light , only then it is cast . Hence it must be understood that a
Linga state is not an object in itself but it is the accumulation or
collection of vibrations or oscillations from a previous
interactive state of Bhava activity , which seeks a “rest“ or
inactive state with relation to its location and therefore it must
belong to something that is existing or substantially verifiable.
The base must be real or it must have substance. The substratum
as described in the very first Suthra is necessary to provide the
supporting framework. Such a base is necessary as a
mathematical reality to proceed with the logic enumerated so far.

271
     Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Manifestation is a hologram built up of vibrations of elemental
components.




272
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 42..
The synchronised state provides attracting potential to build up
          mass.

Purushaarthahetukamidham
nucleur-potential-motivating-attraction
nimithaneimitthikaprasangena.
to-this-target-circumferentially-incidental-attachment
prakrithairvibhuthvayogannatavadvyatishtathe.
Oscillatory-action-strongly-resonant-dancelike-exchange
Lingham.
superpostioned mass

Meaning: The synchronised and coherent state of the nuclear
core forms the target potential to attract the oscillatory
interactions to synchronise and superposition itself
circumferentially, simultaneously, similar to the movements in a
dance, that increases and strengthens theresonant state of the
interactions .
Explanation: The build up of the Linga characteristics of mass
is explained in a picturesque way to illustrate the mode of action.
Mass in an object is a permanent increase in its density. But in
the substratum the mass is built up by the occupation of
oscillatory displacements on the same component location on a
time sharing basis. This as an important theorem that explains
the most fundamental nature of a movement. When action and
reaction in a self similar interaction of equal components in the
substratum is not balanced or the cycle period is not half, then
there is a drift or movement towards the direction of the delayed
reaction and as the interactions pile up and accumulate the delay
increases thereby causing a chain reaction of movement that
forms or becomes the nuclear centre with mass or inertial linga
characteristics. the original interactions or bhava state that had
equal spatial displacements in both directions in maintaining a
balance, now experience a reduction in displacement and an
273
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
increase in the cyclic period in the region towards which it has
drifted and as a result more than one displacement or interactive
exchange is forced to occupy the same location. The Suthra
makes it clear that it is a an incidental or superficial attachment
or super-positioned state. This action of many interactive
displacements occupying the same location in the same period is
a time sharing act of superpositioning like when two dancers
occupy the same place by stepping in harmony at different but
equal fractional intervals. If there is a misstep the harmony is
broken (see note 2.). Because of many interactions occupying the
same place the reactions behave as though many components act
reactively at the same time or simultaneously or coherently or
synchronously. The effect is a multiplication of the reactive
value or an in increase in the mass or linga characteristic of the
core and now the core acts unitedly or as one unit and displays
centre of mass characteristics. Its an ensemble or collection of
components acting in unison. Whenever the activity along the
axis synchronises in rate with an axis in another direction
superpositioning takes place along the circumferential position
simultaneously on all sides. Two axis synchrony gives a united
surface of activity with a flexible centre of mass which typically
is the electromagnetic behaviour in a fundamental field and the
liquid / fluid status in a molecular field. Three axis synchrony
provides the solid phase behaviour and a particle with a dense
and fixed centre of mass characteristics. In a three axis
synchronisation the interactive counts merge and reduce which
then provides a lower count state towards which the higher
caounts drift giving the effect of attraction, inward acceleration
etc. Effects of Gravity and electromagnetic acceleration are
caused by the same principle.
     It is important to understand that mass characteristics in the
substratum, in a state of kaivalya or freedom, can be generated
only by coherent, synchronised, superpositioned states
Equation S.42. The synchronisation creates PM the Prakrithi
Saptha or Nucleon.

274
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




                            Suthra 43.
Conditions under which the Laws of interaction are certain.

samsiddhikascha bhava
state-of-resonance-also charged state
prakrithika vaikrthascha dharmadhya:.
oscillatory accelerative activity are the start of axiomatic laws
dhrsta: karanaashrayinah
detection reaction-resting-place
karya-shrayinascha kalaladhya.
action -resting place     start of time or cycle count

Meaning: The source or starting point of the axiomatic laws of
resonant action are from the state when the charged interactive
state is in a state of perfect resonance and the starting point or
start of time-cycle-period count of measurement commences
when the action is in a state of relative rest or static state for
detection is only possible when the detected component is at a
restful state.
Explanation: 1+x = 1/x x-(1-x) = x3 .The fundamental laws of
interaction are correct or valid only for the coherent state ,
meaning that the rules of logic can be applied correctly when the
active state is steady and unchanging. If a calculated value is to
be ascertained it can be expected to be correct only for a
resonant state that holds for the duration of that cycle. Similarly
when measuring or detecting an interactive state the observer can
synchronise or count or time an activity from the position at
which it is relatively stationery or seems to be resting. Counting
the number of bounces a ball makes can be correct only if timing
275
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of the count is synchronised when the ball hits the floor . This
Suthra defines the certainty of detection or measurement in a
dynamic state of components. There is a possibility of
uncertainty of measurement and also loss of proportionality of
interactive rules if the stated conditions are not observed. It also
has serious ramifications in theorising. The substratum is not
detectable for the reasons given above. For instance a foot rule
with markings in tenths determines the accuracy to a tenth. As a
result of this theorem the two important parameters in an
oscillatory state is defined. Assuming an interactive count of ten
per cycle along an axis and it interacts with a similar axis count
of an adjacent unit then it will increase to 10 into 10 = 100
counts but if the two are to maintain the restful state of
remaining in the same position then it must distribute the 100 as
equal counts of 50 along each opposing axis within the cycle . If
not the excess that continues beyond the cycle will cause
unsynchronised count states at the interactive point.
Equation S.43. There are three locations at which measurement
of parameters can be made or observed.




276
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.


The Linga/Bhava interface of the Purusha Kx and
Prakrithisaptha PM interacive level in the strong force region
provides a stable state called the Compton wavelength in
physics. The next mid level Raja resonant balancing point of the
Prakrithisaptha PM and Mahadvikrithi Me is where almost all
manifest phenomena remain in a stable / bonded state. The
Proton/Electron interface or hadron / lepton weak force region is
a complex one. Next the MahadVikrithi Me to Vikrithisaptha Ne
change takes place in the Abhiman/Ahankar interface where the
accelerative Vikaro state radiates 7 Ne as a Vrithi or Photon. The
unmanifest state of zero is an indicator of a self similar
oscillatory activity in perfect balance when there are no inputs
but an unbalanced state triggers this state into a reactive
response. The zero state is kept in balance by Ne transmigration
in a tunneling mode and only when 7 Ne are triggered
simultaneously a detectable vrithi or photon is radiated.




277
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 44.
The mode of natural action based on rules.

dharmena gamanamurdhvam
axioamtic laws leads-upward
gamanamadhastadbhavathyadharmena.
leading to lowering of actions opposing natural law.
jnanena       cha      apavargo
self-potential cause of state of coherence
viparyayadishyate bhandah.
reverse results in restrictions
Meaning: Sathwic expansive actions are supported by axiomativ
laws and leads upwards or towards a free state but actions
opposing it results in lowered states that leads to thaamasic or
compressive states that are restrictive. Inner self potential is the
only cause of synchronisation and establishment of a coherent
state but obstruction or restrictions results in a confined and
bonded state. Self potential is created by merging or
sinchronising, reducing time of activity or work.
Explanation: The natural self similar laws support an expansive
or upward or free states of synchronous and harmonised states of
existence of interactions. Opposite states leading to compressive
or confined states, require the action to oppose the natural mode.
Coherent synchronised states are created by the inner self
potential
Equation. S.44. Self similar axpansion can continue without
limit.




278
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Equation .S.44.A. Reducing or restrictive series end at the 3rd
power.
                         Suthra 45
State of unbalance is the motivating cause of manifestation.

vairyagath prakrithilaya:
neutral state absorption of activity
samsaro      bhavathy rajasadragath
   manifestation forms      resonant-spectrum
aisvaryadavighatho viparyayath tadviparyasah.
Power-acceleration      reversal      and its opposite

Meaning: When the rajasic interactive states are equal and
balanced accumulation or increase of mass by absorption or
superpositioning of active displacements occur. When
unbalanced or unequal the increase or decrease in force causes
acceleration or deceleration creating the manifest spectrum of
universal phenomenon.
Explanation: A state of balanced interaction is one that
simulates a static or stationery condition and as a result all
interaction drift or move towards such a condition thereby
increasing its potential by superpositioning the interactive
displacements by absorbing it in the same location, which
increases the density or mass of that state. Therefore any location
that is in a synchronised and balanced interactive such that it
seems to relatively stationery or static, it attracts or causes other
interactive states at a greater level of activity to move towards it
to attain a state of balance. However when the state of balance or
synchrony is lost the activities continue and the variety of such
interactions are the cause of manifested or detectable
phenomenon. The synchronisation of interactions take place in
all directions and the interactive rates synchronise or equalise
along all the 3 axis of spatial configuration , so the position at
which it occurs remains centred and stationery , which results in
a spherical surface of activity being presented.
279
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Also another important change takes place when the axis
synchronise. The activity reduces to a coherent synchronised
level that makes it an action centring state. Assuming that each
axis has a count of 10 interactions per cycle and all the 3 axis are
not in a synchronous state. The total number interactions per
cycle will be 1000. If 2 axis synchronise the count will reduce to
100 and will present only 10 counts when all three axis
synchronise. Assuming that all the surrounding components were
at 1000 counts prior to this event, on one synchronising, all the
1000 count units will be now interacting with a 100 count unit
whose reaction interval will be 10 times as long. Hence all the
surrounding units will move towards this centre till it meets with
an opposing reaction to stop its movement and thereby regain the
balanced state. The inward move produces the Linga state while
the moving units are in the Bhava phase.




280
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                            Suthra 46.
Interactions in the coherent state cause 50 orders of change.
Yesha         prathyayasargo
Axiomatically ascertained-spectrum-of- manifestation
Viparyayaashaktithushtisidhaakya: .
interchanging-unsynchronised-balanced-coherent-defined
gunavaishamavimardath
interaction due to unbalanced state of gunas
thasya cha bhedasthu panchasat.
Hence      the varieties are   fifty orders

Meaning. The axiomatically ascertained order of the spectrum
of interachanged states due to the conditions of unbalance, non
synchronisation, balance and coherent synchronisation caused by
the interplay of three guna modes of interaction are 50 (order of
powers).
Explanation: It is an extremely important theorem that identifies
the incremental variations by a process of permutation and
combinations , possible due to three major interactive modes of
the Gunas producing 4 complementary phases of balance and
synchronisation and its opposites.
Viparyaya – interactive
Ashakti – unsynchronised or weak
Thushti balanced and equalised
Siddhi coherent & synchronised

Siddhi       Thushthi     Ashakthi            Viparyaya
             4+5=9        9+8+11=28                       10+18=28
8            9            28                  5           =50

1            3           5           7            9        =25
9            7           5           3            1        =25
10           10          10          10           10       =50


281
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
A cycle has 4 phases (Suthra 30) and adds sequentially to
1+2+3+4=10 which forms the standard count in a cycle and also
gives the logarithmic base in internal changes that are deemed to
take place instantly or self-similarly within the unit cycle. The
log
Any rate increase in the substratum must be an incremental one.
It means that the increase is over the previous state. The
graphical display shows a 1 to 10 sequence in rate laid out as
combinatorial state in the substratum. The white shows a count
rate of 1 and next to it is red with a count of rate 2 but it has 3
components and count rate 3 as orange must have 6 components
and so on . The gradient is shown in the left graph. Neither 1 nor
3 can divide into equal integers to oscillate In a stable mode but
1 can combine with 3 t form 4 which can interact as a colliding 2
x 2 = 4 and separate as a sequential decay of 2 + 2 = 4 , thereby
keeping the cycle balanced. Similarly every combination upto a
cycle count of 10 is shown. It progress as 1,3,6,10 etc and the
combinations progress as

1+3=4       6+10=16      15+21=36     28+36=64
45+55=100
 4 (2x2)        16 (4x4)      36 (6x6)         64 (8x8)
100 (10x10)

In the substratum only one side remains above the ground level
vibrations rate of C and the remain below , that is within C or C
cubed
An oscillating state must be able to split or divide equally if it is
to remain stable. That is if the instantaneous product of colliding
Thaamasic interaction is to be balanced with the expanding
Satwic sequential time like reaction, then the rate of separation
in both directions must be equal to half of the Thaamasic product
value. By combining two adjacent states it is possible to produce
divisible states that produce such synchronised combinational
levels as follows and splitting it by half to keep the rate same in
both axis to retain coherence and synchronisation:
282
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
 2+2=4         8 + 8 =16    18 +18 = 36          32 + 32 = 64
50 + 50 =100

The incremental rate of such combined sequences increase by
one unit based on its own time cycle. Hence it is stable and it
cannot divide in any other way.

2/2=1       8/4=2           18/6=3      32/8=4        50/10=5

The odd number gap between product of interactions can also
combine as follows:

1      3        6      10       15       21       28            36
45       55
Sequential or additive

        3+6=9         10 + 15 = 25      21 + 28 = 49        36 +
45 = 81
and simultaneous interaction
        3x3=9           5 x 5 = 25       7 x 7 = 49             9x
9 = 81

Since odd numbers cannot divide all these interactive
combinations are transient but the following sequential or time
involving Raja combinations are stable and balance the
interaction and decay harmoniously.
       1                2                 3                    4
5
1+1=2            3+3=6         5 + 5 = 10       7 + 7 = 14     9
+ 9 = 18
The total of these are also 50 and shows that it can be in a
balanced state because the recurring gap of 4 is harmonious as 2
x2=2+2
                 2 + 6 + 10 + 14 + 18 = 50
The five orders of combinational change gives 2, 8, 18, 32 and
50 in both directions and 2 + 6 + 10 + 14 + 18 = 50 as
283
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
sequential combinations cover every unit incremental rate to
provide a stable interactive group at all levels above and below
the neutral level. Even though the combination process involved
uneven incremental counts the ratio of the change increases only
in discrete unitary steps to maintain proportionality. The
incremental ratio ascends unit by unit , thereby maintaining the
integer relationship necessary to hold the integer count
relationship order in both the internal logarithmic (instant) and
external numerical (sequential) increments. It establishes the
rationale for the synchronised states that allow two or three axis
to oscillate synchronously within a single unit to give it the
centre of form or mass status. Further it allows two adjacent axis
with same oscillatory count to remain in locked synchronous,
coherent mode producing the bonding, linking or coupling effect
seen as orbital capture in atomic and molecular states. When two
or three axis counts are not the same the counts multiply to
produce all the possible variations in interactions. If
synchronised the counts are absorbed and seem to disappear but
superpose along the axis as a changed Linga state (acquire mass)
from the previous varying Bhava phase. A visual example would
be that of two gear wheels rotating at different speeds trying to
mesh but are kept apart by the teeth on one contacting in turn all
the teeth on the other wheel and both wheels stay separated by a
distance equal to the sum of the two radii. When the revolutions
are synchronised the teeth mesh and the gear wheels move in
closer to each other because each tooth occupies the gap in the
other wheel, thereby producing a reduction in the volumetric
status which is the equivalent synchronous or coherent state of
acquiring a mass or superpositioned wave number or increase in
the field potential or orbital capture or bonding or coupling etc.
The consequence of this spectrum is that within the component
of the substratum the maximum number of interactions that can
be accommodated or superposed or made massive or increase
the static potential by, is 1050 counts.
The combinatorial process shown keeps any two axis
synchronised with the third axis to keep the state of the ensemble
284
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
in unified , coherent , selecting and with a unified centre of mass
action. To maintain synchrony and coherence all interacting
values must be even numbered or else timings in two axis can
vary by half an integer that would not stay in static relative
position with          another component, in which case
synchronisation, coherence and resonance is lost .
The unit increase in the substratum is within a cycle but it must
be remembered that a an increase from 9 to 10 needs a cycle
fraction of 1/9 to 1/10 to change one count whereas 99 to 100
requires 1/99 to 1/100 of the cycle for the same unit. The
principle of division is on self similar basis. The first slope is 1
to 2 , which means the average rate of change per unit is
                          (√12 + 22 ) = √5 /2
The maximum self similar increment in rates must be based on
what is available at that instant and that gives the following
series:
1         2       3         4       5          6         7         8
9          10
0 +1 = 1          2+1=3             5 +3=8             13 + 8 = 21
34 + 21 = 55
         1 + 1 =2        3+2=5            8 + 5 = 13        21 + 13
= 34
In order to make it scale invariant the above incremental series
must be reduced to the same slope or first ratio √5 /2 which
gives the final power series as follows:
 The factor x = 1.618
1 x /√5 /2 = 2.236 = x2 = 2.618
2 x /√5 /2 = 4.472 = x3 = 4.236
3 x /√5 /2 = 6.708 = x4 = 6.853
5 x /√5 /2 = 11.18 = x5 = 11.09
8 x /√5 /2 = 18     = x6 = 18
13 x /√5 /2 = 29    = x7 = 29
21 x /√5 /2 = 47    = x8 = 47
34 x /√5 /2 = 76    = x9 = 76
55 x /√5 /2 = 123 = x10 = 123
285
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Note: The electron number periodic table follows the same
combinational process 2, 8, 18, 32 and 50 along two axis but
does not reach the 50th. order as the atomic density exceeds the
coherent and synchronised level at the 42nd. count and therefore
combinations beyond 84 along two axis become unstable and
start to decay and becomes radioactive. Since the atomic periodic
table is built by combining above the base or ground level of C
cubed , the two sides of the interaction are added on the same
side above the ground level like (the first 2 is below ground
level)
  2 + 8 = 10 +8 = 18 +18 = 36 +18 = 54 + 32 = 86 + 32 = 118
+50 = 168 + 50 = 218.
All these values in the periodic table are above the substratum.




286
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 47.
Balanced , synchronised and its reversed variation sequence of
           interactions.

pancha viparyayabheda
Five-orders-of-interchanging states
Bhavantyaashaktischakaranavaikalyath.
synchronous and non synchronised interaction
ashtavimsathibhedatusthirnavadhaashtadha
28 orders of change balanced 9th.order 8th. order
siddhi
coherent state.

 Meaning: A sequence of 5 orders (power index) of change is
 created by the three varying states of interaction like non-
 synchronous, interactive change and synchronous. Weak and
 unsynchronised states have 28 orders while the balanced phase
 has 9 orders and the perfectly synchronised state has 8 orders of
 sequentially variable levels.
 Explanation:
Thaama        Li/Bh       Raja     Ab/Ah      Satwa
9             0.5+0.5     8        2+1=3      8+3=11 28
9             .5+.5=-1 8           -2-1=-3    8-3=5      22
18            0           16       0          16         50
 The 4 cycle phase has a maximum of 10 counts and assuming
 that it is purely internal the Thaama product of 10 x 10 = 100 is
 split equally as a sequential Sathwa expansion of 50 + 50 =100
 to maintain a balance. Hence 50 per direction is a limit in a
 balanced state. The 5 variations are shown within the count of
 50. Each sequence has its own internally coherent rate.
 The five orders of variation, both in the non synchronised and
 synchronised states, increasing in steps of one count order or 10
 counts, are as follows
 2+2=4 8+8=16 18+18=36                32+32=64     50+50=100
 2/2=1 8/4=2            18/6=3        32/8=4       50/10=5
 287
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
2x2=4 4x4=16 6x6=36                   8x8=64       10x10=1-00
The change from 2 to 8 , 8 to 18, 18 to 32 and 32 to 50 is by the
addition of two odd or indivisible rates combining sequentially
or staying in adjacent synchronous states . The odd states or
confined or contained by even rates to make it coherent and
synchronised. The following states form the atomic spectra
along one axis and when synchronised with another axis the
counts increase by the same number or its paired counterpart.
2+3+3=8 8+5+5=18 18+7+7=32                   32 + 9+9 = 50
Siddhi states or coherent and synchronised phases. Any count
ratio of 4 has a unique balanced state because 2 x 2 = 2 + 2 and
can never become unsynchronised or incoherent or unbalanced
and therefore can never be detected or recorded as an interaction
and this count structure will always be hidden as a Linga or mass
phase in a permanent state. Therefore the 8 and 32 count step
will remain as perfect coherent or synchronised siddhi states:
Combinations 32 + 32 = 64= 8 x 8= (2 x 4) + (2 x 4), 32/8 = 4
But it can combine with adjacent states to produce variations.
Tusti states or balanced mid order states. The 3 rd. order 18 can
divide into 9+9 as intermediate states. 9 is formed by 3 x 3
interactive states with its own Linga or centre of mass
capabilities as 3 is the order of the damping force .
The Asakti states or weak or unsynchronised states formed by
combination are :
 5+ 5 = 10         8 + 10 = 18        10 +18 = 28
Since 2 and 8 are synchronised states it can become
unsynchronised by combining with the 3rd state of 18 and the
total combination is 28 orders.




288
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 48.
 Order of compression increase when one, two and three axis
            synchronise.
bhedasthaamasoashtavidho
varieties-compressively- 8th. order
mohasya       cha dasavidho mahamoha:.
superpositioned and 10th. order deeply nested
tamisroashtadashadaathabhavathyandhathaamishrah
coherence 18th. order of charge forms the darkest densest level.

Meaning: Interactive changes in the compressive thaamasic state
proceed on the basis of 8 orders of change. along one axis and
increases by the same order when it synchronises with another
axis at a deeper level. at the next intermediate level it increases
by 10 orders and at the final core level it increases by 18 and by
another 18 at deepest core level synchronisation. that is 8 + 8 ,
followed by (5+5) =10 in each axis and finally (8+10) 18 +18 . It
is a combinatorial process of incremental rates that can
synchronise and remain in balance only as even numbered levels.
interactive changes in the compressive thaamasic state proceed
on the basis of 8 orders of change along one axis and increases
by the same order when it synchronises with another axis at a
deeper level. at the next intermediate level it increases by 10
orders and at the final core level it increases by the sum of 10+18
or by another 18 at deepest core level of superpositioned
synchronisation.




289
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         suthra 49.
the 11 & 17 orders of the weak and balanced groups.

ekadashaindrayavadha saha
eleven –orders of expansion capable
bhuddivadhairashaktiruddishta
coherent-action-obstruction-weak-named
sapthadhasavadha bhudderviparyayath
seventeen orders      coherent-non-synchronisation
thusthisiddhinam.
balanced-coherent phases

Meaning: eleven orders of expansive interactions cover the
observable range out of the previous 28 orders mentioned before.
The balance of 17 orders consists of the balanced and coherent
states and the radiant states. With the 5 orders of radiant state it
forms 22 orders. The 17 orders form the common potential to
both phases.
Explanantion:The 50 orders comprise two sections of self
similar groups as follows :
((25+1+2)=28) + ((25-1-2)= 22) = 50 = (28 –3 =) 25 + 25 (=
22 + 3 )
28 = 11=( 8 + 3) + 17( = 9 + 8) : 22 = 5(= 8 – 3 ) +17 (= 9 + 8 )




290
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 50.
50. Nuclear balancing paramaeters
adhyaathmikachatashra:
the internal nuclear field fourth power
prakrityupaadaanakaalabhaagyaakya:.
Self-action-material-cause-time-destiny-defined
bahya visayoparamath pancha
external objects fundamental fifth power
nava thushtayo:bhihitha
nine      balanced-both-equalised

Meaning: The interaction inside the nuclear state can be labelled
as fourth power, initiating cause of action and responsive self
reaction , the time period of the reaction and the destined
potential available for the reaction. Externally detectable
fundamental activity is categorised as the fifth power and when
these two act together synchronously it is the ninth power.
Explanation: The interactions remain internal because it is
balanced. The fourth power of internal instantaneous interactions
are balanced if the four phases of internal balance exist. These
are perpetual oscillatory state, its reaction, duration and
environment.




291
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 51.

51. Colliding interaction cause of vibrations.

Uha: shabdhoadhyayanam
knowledge gained cause of vibrations through research
dhukhavighathasthrayah suhrthaprapthih
stress colliding tripleacting intensive-superpositioned
dhaanam cha siddhayo’ashto          siddhey:
                                 th
divergent also synchronised 8 . order coherence
purvon’gkushasthrividhah.
previously controlled state third power

Meaning: Knowledge gained through research on vibratory or
oscillatory stress caused by colliding interactions follow three
step action (of compression – shuttling- expansion –guna mode)
leading to intensive superpositioned, divergent, or synchronised
state, raised to the eighth power coherent mode. The original
state prior to the interaction has been established to be in a
controlled, compressed, cubic, volumetric state, raised to the
third power.
Explanation: The components of the substratum are in a
dynamic and synchronised state corresponding to a volumetric or
cubic representation and follows a third order damping control or
reaction, proved and established in the derivation of rules
controlling the triple acting guna interactions. The normal
dynamic state is maintained by resonant interactions wherein the
three phases of thaama compression, rajah shuttling interaction
and consequential reactive sathwa expansion that equalises
according to swabhava or self similar rules. However when a
collision occurs the intensity causes the vibrations or oscillations
to aggregate, collect, pile-up or superpose on the component
such that the density, mass or inertia increases to eight times or
powers (instantaneously). The proof of this behaviour is
established by analytical and mathematical logic as follows: at
292
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the instant of collision the oscillatory counts of the two
components combine to form a THAAMASIC increase
proportionally to two units. The increment must take place along
all three axis to maintain the synchronised and centred state so
the count value rises to 2 cubed = 8 within the instant duration of
the collision (See note 1). The corresponding RAJASIC
interaction must equal 8 counts in the normal sequential spatial
shuttling form in which it normally oscillates. The SATWIC
expansive reaction must account for the 8 units by equalising in
an expansive mode. Since only two components were involved
in the colliding interaction the reactive values must be generated
only by these same two units as an expanding displacement .
Had there been eight unit components involved in the collision
the equalisation could have been possible within the unitary
cycle by all the 8 components absorbing the 8 counts. Therefore
the two unit components must now equalise in eight sequential
steps or stages or the duration must equal eight sequential steps
to absorb the increased counts. Subtracting the normal unit
displacement in a unitary cycle there are seven additional
expanding vibrations or oscillations superposed or accumulated
on the component. Therefore the Raja interactive shuttling
duration shows seven distinct phases of the oscillations that are
superposed in a sequence of seven additional wavelengths in a
cycle. This state continues because the next cycle adds a similar
count value so that the counts increase logarithmically to the 8 th.
power in a cycle . As a cycle contains 10 units as a count
duration, (Suthra 30) the 8th power is based on 10. So the
consistent , constant, resonant, synchronised state of a cycle must
contain 108 counts increment or additional interactive
displacements that are equally subdivided into the expansive
RAJASIC – SATWIC cycle. Summarising, an intense colliding
interaction value rises to two units that is then translated into
cube of two displacements that superpose and the expansive
reaction equalises the instantaneous rise in cycle time value of 8
in sequential displacement of 8 cycles and subtracting the
normal, usual unit value there exist seven sequential expanding
293
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
cycles for each intensive collision. If the 3 axis counts are
synchronised then the count remains at 108 and the spherical
boundary remains undisturbed . If the 3 axis loose the synchrony
the sphericallity is lost and the count rises to a maximum of
1025 . The observed spectrum of seven colours in light created by
an accelerated photon as set , or the seven sound frequencies
created by an impact in air are the consequences of the above
explanation. One must note that the substratum is in constant
dynamic , selfsimilar interaction but light is produced only when
it is in an accelerative or unbalanced and therefore non-spherical
interaction, because had it been otherwise light would have been
spontaneously emitted from the substratum and spherical
photons with helicity zero would have been detected. The
components of the substratum are oscillating continuously at a
self similar rate of 296500000 cyclic interactions consistent with
a stable oscillatory cycle due to a1 to 2 difference in timing
between the axis. Similarly the field of air molecules are
vibrating at the same proportionate self similar rate of 256
interactions for a unitary cycle, because the air field is not a free
one and synchrony along two axis is forced . The statement that
there are so many interactions in a cycle means that not a single
interaction is simultaneous with another during that cycle. Both
in light and sound and in every spherical harmonic oscillator
there are seven incremental levels of changing values before it
repeats. This situation is true only if the field functions in the
normal SWABHAVA state of freedom from external influences.
And above all this self similar behaviour is possible in a
substratum of equalised, similar, identical and compacted
plenum of components.

Note 1. Using momentum conservation (though not applicable)
principle and using a unit mass then the displacement on
colliding will be half the diameter of the component and the
volume will be proportional to ½ cubed and density will rise to 2
cubed within the impact duration and this must be dissipated by
a linear movement of both units away from the centre. If both
294
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
units move at the same speed in opposite directions the centre of
collision remains stationery. If one remains stationery the other
moves away at 108 .

Note 2. The same behaviour takes place when measuring
waveforms on an oscilloscope. If the timing between the vertical
and horizontal axis is identical then a single diagonal line or a
circle would be visible. If the timing between the two axis is
made different then numerous waveforms in continuous motion
would be visible. A triggering pulse is needed to make the
waveforms superimpose one train of waveforms on the next train
to make them stay stationery .These patterns are called Lissajou
figures and are used to study the state of synchrony between two
axis.

In an odd count interaction        the only possible way of
synchronising is by combining with the next incremented count
rate, which provide the following sequence of numbers by of
previous to present and can be expressed as a formula where n =
previous number.


Order of interaction
            8
            7
            6
            5
            4
            3
            2
            1

Spread of interaction 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
       Fig. Incremental States By Combinatorial Process.
The cycle has 10 counts and in 8 cycles 80 counts reside in th
same location if no net displacement is there. The 70 counts
295
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
occupy adjacent levels and indicates the superpositioning level.
The 70 counts are to be accounted for because the 8 th. is the
original state and can never get lost. If the displacement is equal
on both sides then the domain of activity remains centered else it
moves by the net difference in the direction of retarded or
negative or slower activity level. The observed spectrum of
seven colours in light created by an acclerated photon, or the
seven sound frequencies created by an impact in air or the
consequences of the above explanation. One must note that the
substratum is in constant dynamic , selfsimilar interaction but
light is produced only when it is a colliding or accelerative or
unbalanced interaction, because had it been otherwise light
would have been spontaneously emmitted from the substratum.
The components of the substratum is oscillating continiuosly at a
rate of 296500000 interactions in a cycle but reacts only if there
is an unbalance. Similarly the field of air molecules are vibrating
at the same proportionate self similar rate but at a rate of 256
interactions for unitary cycle . The statement that there are so
many interactions in a cycle means that not a single interaction is
of the same value during that cycle. Both in light and sound and
in every sperical harmonic oscillator there are seven incremental
levels of changing values before it repeats. This situation is true
only if the field functions in the normal SWABHAVA state of
freedom from external influences.




296
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.



                           Suthra 52.
52. The polarisation of phenomenon into coherent potential
        (mass) and kinetic potential (charge) modes.

na vina      bhavairlingham
not without kinetic-phase-coherent state
na vina lingena bhavanirvrithi:.
not without coherence potential phase the kinetic state vortex
linghaakhyo bhavaakhyatasmadhvividha:
mass-defined defined charge hence polarisation
pravartate sargah.
Initiates    phenomenon

Meaning: Neither can a characteristic potential source exist
without a kinetic phase nor can a potential phase without a
kinetic mode. A vorticular particle existed due to a potential
source. The potential is classified as mass and the kinetic phase
as charge from which dual combination all phenomenon is
initiated and maintained by a dual mode of polarisation.
Explanation: This shows the interdependance of static and
dynamic potential in the substratum. In the coherent and
symmetric state there is no prefferred or prevalent or
predominant orientation and as there is no physical movement of
components the cause and effect determines the potential and
kinetic phases. The potential phase change induces balancing
procedures which is the kinetic phase and when it exceeds the
self-similar rate of balance then it becomes externalised and
displays radiant qualities.




297
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                        Suthra 53.
53. Guna classification.

ashtam vikalpam daivam
eightfold variations natural phenomenon
thairyagyonam panchada bhavathi
the sequential         five        modes
manushyam tvaikavidham
coherent        single class
samasathoyam tridha         sarga.
succintly restrain threeways manifest phenomeno.

Meaning: Natural or inorganic or matter oriented phenomenon is
the result of 8 orders of variations and the sequential are five
orfders. The self sustaining order is from a single variant, these
three classes succintly control the complete spectrum of
phenomenon.
Explanation: Natural phenomenon operates as a aspectrum of 8
levels. As the fundamental dynamic state is an oscillatory
activity the very first state must axiomatically cover the
increment from level one to two. That the expansive state of the
oscillation will rise as 23 = 8. Hence, as these are distinct phases
of activity levels it presents phenomenon at 8 stages at the
fundamental level. From these 8 expansive stages , 3 levels by
combining form coherent states, which again become the
building blocks for 5 remaining states. If the 8 states are termed
as a horizontal or sequential process the combination of three
plus the remaining five are transition states using the 3
synchronised levels as unitary base states for the five. Then
finally when all 7 levels combine into a single coherent form,
within the spectrum of 8, it is a free and mobile state totally
dependant on itself. It marls the initiating phase of a unit of
moblile or free phenomenon.
The seven levels form a spectrum like light, sound etc. Each has
a distinctive characteristic of identification. When all these 7 are
298
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
combined into a coherrent ensemble and radiated it forms a
vrithi. For example light has photons, sound has phonons, and at
the subatomic, atomic and molecular levels, the gluons, mesons
and bosons and so on. At the Galaxy level, rings of stellar
bodies form the spectrum and at the stellar level planetary bodies
contribute to these states. The atomic periodic table represents
agglomerate leves of groups with distinctive characteristics.
These combinations continue at nested levels of fundamental
groups. Like the chemical and mineral groups on, earth are sub-
groups of te atomic/molecular combinations. Further the
botanical and biological species are derivates of the previous
groups. The Sutra lays out the principle through an alegorical
comparison to species on earth.




299
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 54.
54. The distribution of Guna interactive states.

urdhvam satva vishalastamovishalasva
higher orders expansive predominantly denser region
moolatah sarga.
basic order of manifestation
madhye rajovishalo brahmaadistambapariyantham.
The mid resonant order covers brahma to grass ultimately..

Meaning: Ascending order of outward manifestation is
predominantly sathvic and the descending inward mode of
creation is predominantly thaamasic and the intermediate range
is predominantly rajasic and it is consistantly so right from the
starting dynamic creative field of brahma to a blade of grass and
final state of manifestation.
Explanation: The single coherent state polarises into the three
phases of expansive, dense and the intermediate phase. The
axiomatic self similar law of distribution of phases through
suerposition of intreractive stresses must follow the single guna
form of polarisation. That is the denser region can form only by
borrowing from another phase which automatically becomes the
lighter one. Naturally the denser region will have a higher
interactive count and so becomes the fundamental foundation for
all phenomena. The transition phase in the middle must have a
ratio that reflects both states or it becomes the halfway state of
change. The distribition following guna classifications then have
a numerical distribution of two states as x + x 2 = 1 and the 3
phase distribution as x2 + 2x3 + x4 =1 . This Sutra refers to latter
numerical expression which reflects the polarised state of the
substratum in the mode of manifestation. The former reflects the
quiescent state of unmanifest balance.




300
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 55.
55.   Stress in three modes follows self similar laws in the
            dynamic substratum.

thathra jaramaranakritam         dhukham
therefore growth-to-decay-activity stress
prapnothi chetanah purushah.
attainment dynamic       nucleus
lingasya         vini      vritheh.
superpositioning minimised vortex
tasmad dhukham svabhavena.
thus      stress      self similar

Meaning: Therefore the process of decay and destruction
introduces interactive stresses that create the dynamic state of
the the purusha and on its absorption of the vorticular interactive
activity by the nuclear core the process of superpositioning
continues until the interactions are minimised and a coherent
self-similar state is established.
Mathematical:

1 / x = 1+ x

Explanation: Interactive states create stress by colliding and it
decays by expanding and transmigrating to other states where it
gets absorbed or initiates action. Compressive stress will expand
and its reaction will create a reversal of action. The process when
balanced provides the motivating cause for continuing activity
which ultimately decays back into the field of space.




301
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 56.
56. Manifestation is the result of interactions to maintain the
            balance between nucleus and boundary.
ithyesha        prakrithikritho
thus-axiomatic oscillatory activity interactions
mahadhadhivisheshaabhuthapariantha:.
intense force source static matter to the very end.
prathipurushavimokshaartha
towards nucleus isolating potential
svartha            eva parartha          arambha:
self acting potential other reactive potential initiates.

Meaning: In this way interactive oscillatory activity is initiated
and perpetuated from the intense fundamental activity at the
source to the final coherent superposed massive state at the
isolated nuclear boundary where the self potential balances with
the reactive potential from the start .
 Explanation: The mathematical logic is rigorous and is shown in
the explanatory comments of the last few Sutras. The interaction
are between the core and boundary. The stresses are intense
towards the core and accelerative towads the boundary.
Compression rebounds initiating reaction and expansion slows
down when the potential minimises. This exchange maintains the
oscillatory state.




302
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 57.
Attainment of a coherent superposed state initiates oscillatory
          state.


Vatsavivriddhwinimitham         ksirasya
Calf- growth without apparent cause milk
yatha pravritter     ajnasya
like    commencement in all innocence
purusha vimochanaksha nimittam
nucleus goal of freedom      without apparent cause
thatha pravritti       pradhanasya
of       commencement fundamental oscillatory activity.

Meaning: The growth of a calf is due to both , milk as its food
and its commencement without any apparent cause or specific
instruction ; in a similar way the goal of the nuclear state to
attain a state of restful balance, isolation or freedom from action-
potential, is both the cause of initiating and maintaining a
fundamental oscillatory state of continuous activity of the
substratum.
Explanation: The allegorical statement highlights the silent
mode by which coherent states are created . The synchronisation
of oscillations wthin a finite interval causes increas of mass
because two activities have combined to form a single action.




303
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 58.
58. The Unmanifest state maintains the potential to act.

authsukyanivarthyartham
anxiety - covering-purpose
yatha kriyasu pravarthathe loka:.
just as activity initiated by people
purushasya vimokshartham
for the nucleus purpose of releasing
pravarthathe tatvad avyaktam.
   initiate         similarly unmanifest state

Meaning: Just as people are motivated to initiate action to
reduce their anxiety; similarly the unmanifest state maintains
the purusha in an isolated state free of stresses by absorbing the
activity     of the continuous static and kinetic balancing
interactions
Explanation: The nucleus is in a state of relative rest because it
is isolated from the potential to act or vibrate. Unless there is a
an inert or passive base to absorb the interactions or provide a
screen from constant interchange of static and kinetic potentials
to maintain a balance, the nuclear state of coherence can not be
maintained. Therefore the unmanifest or inactive state is a
necessary condition and allegorical example is used to to
highlight this factor by comparing the silent and hidden human
potential quality of “anxiety” as a latent motivation that
maintains activity, similar to the hidden and undectable
Avyaktha state of the substratum. The unmanifest state is devoid
of detectable level of activity and therefore forms the activity
absorbing base, groundlevel or sink.
The process of absorbing activity counts has two aspects. When
absorbed it can increase either the coherent count or its activity
count. If the process of absorption equalises along two axis its
state changes from Sathwa to Raja state. On equalising along
three axis the Raja shifts to the Thaama state. Maths?
304
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




305
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 59.
59. Forming of nucleus due to reduction of potential difference.

rangasya dharshayithva nivarthathe
on stage desire to be seen ceases
narthaki yatha nrithyath.
dancer        by dancing
purushasya thathaatmanam
nuclear state   thus    self energy
prakashya vi nivartate prakrithi
by radiating diminishing     oscillatory state

Meaning: Just as the external exhibhition of a dancer's
performance reduces the urge to continue performance because it
satisfies his desires; similarly the outward spreading of
internally motivated self energy diminishes its potential to
radiate and thereby reaches an interactive state of balance in an
oscillatory state.
Explanation: The alegorical picture shows that activity radiates
vrithis of diminishing numbers to emphasise that the potential is
reduced as radiation takes place and to introduce the concept that
the vrithi or photon must decay eventually. Radiation is potential
dependent.
Equation S.59. All the stable states radiate reducing number of
moolaprakrithis till the Vrithi Ne state.




306
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

Equation S.59.A. The radiation of a Vrithi ot photon takes place
when 7 Ne states are simultaneously accelerated. The Plancks
constant as the value of a quantum of radiation in physics shown
as h is equal to 7 Ne or the spectrum of energy around the
nucleon.




Equation S59. B. The equivalent states in physics is shown in
units of electron volts and it is interesting to note that the
hydrogen spectrum of 13.6 electron volts (ev) is actually the first
expansion boundary at k-1=0.259921. The Ne or neutrino of 7
levels has a value of 53.45 ev .




307
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                            Suthra 60.
60. Cause of interactive oscillations

nanavidhairupayorupakaarinya:
various-controls-corective-supporting
anupakaariny pumsa:
passive          nucleous
gunavathyaagunasya
with guna and its converse qualities
sathasthasyaarthamaparthakam           charathi
dynamic non-dynamic-potential-potential-less oscillates

Meaning: Variety of controls, correcting and supporting
interactions are provided by the active prakrithi state to keep
passive nuclear state with and without the interactive guna
qualities in an oscillatory mode.
Explanation: The coherent nuclear state of oscillatory balance is
constantly controlled by a variety of opposing states of
interactions that reflects the three guna states in all its
combinations. It could support or oppose to keep the oscillatory
state in dynamic .balance. The essential state of a balanced
oscillatory activity is one of self-similarity in a simultaneous
mode. As an example a bow could be seen as a balanced state of
stresses. The arch is under two modes of stress. Compression in
the inner side and tension on the outer side while the string is in
a resonant state of balance. If the string is pulled the arch of the
bow is bent more which consequently increases both the
compressive and tensile stresses . On release of string the bow
snaps back into its former state. The action of the bow
highlights the concept of using simultaneous states of
accumulated stress to release it instantly to gain velocity in the
arrow. Again the bow can pulled slowly and snap released. In the
steady state it is in a resonant state of constant balance to correct
the fine oscillations of the string.
308
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Two major constraints are introduced here. In any field of
components, stress is caused by polarising its normal inactive
state. If the polarised state can be contained perpetually only
then can an oscillatory state exist. Its change initiates reactions
as a consequence. Hence the dynamism in space can be defined
by these concepts. Perpetual oscillation must be derived by
transcendantal numbers which form infinite seried. Generalising
the Guna relationship, Thaamasic states = Rajasic x Sathvic
states. Elaborating coherence= Resonance x radiance. Putting
into three dimensional states Volumetric = Area into Length.
The oscillatory aspect is represented as Axis3 = Axis2 x Axis.
Equation S.60. The Thaamasic state is balanced as follows:




309
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Equation S.60 A. The fundamental oscillatory state is built up by
polarising the two adjacent components through transcendental
series to maintain the oscillatory state perpetually. The Purusha
value Kx remains perpetual through axiomatic interactions in a
self similar mode.




310
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                          Suthra 61.
The oscillatory displacement at the point of balance is very
             attenuated.
prakritheh :             sukumaatharam
oscillatory displacements very fine-move-angular
na kimchidhasthithi
almost doubtful (its) existence
mey matirbhavathy
interactiv information existence
ya drishtaasmitha            punarna
obtain observable self-potential not again
 darshanamupaiti          purushasya
 ability to be observable -of nuclear region

Meaning: At the nuclear boundary the oscillatory displacements
reduce to a minute angular oscillatory movement that its very
existence seems doubtful. The consequent reduction in the
interactive self potential does not ever allow it to radiate
detectable information on the state of interaction of the nuclear
region.
Explanation: Perfect and eternal balance is maintained in the
Substratum that cannot be observed as no parameters are
radiated. If it radiates the balance is upset or if its balance is
upset only then it radiates. There is no translational or velocity
type of movement in the Substratum. The balance is maintained
by a phase or angular change in the coherent relationship. Hence
nothing moves.
The concept of oscillatiory or vibratory count dissapearing by
merging with one another is a difficult process to understand.
The oscillatory rate along any two axis can be identical or even if
the rate is same it can start and end at different times. If there are
10 vibrations per cycle along one axis and the other too has the
same rate but different timing or phasing then the count would
be 10x10=100. But if oscillations start and finish in step the
count detected at the boundary will be only 10 in a cycle because
311
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
two counts are acting in step. If ten people clap ten times in
second in a random order where no clap synchronises with
another then a 100 claps would be heard in that time period. But
if all ten people synchronise and clap together in a stepwise
fashion then only 10 claps would be heard in a second but each
clap (of ten people) would sound louder.
Equation S.61. Even though an interaction follows a straight line
path from the moment the intercation is completed, the reason
why it seems to follow a circular route is due to a difference in
rate or timing of subsequent interactions.




The interactions following self similar proportionality
approximately equal the ratio π in 4 count rates and countinue
to match it in infinite count rates as it is a transcendental number.
But the difference between each sequential increase has
relevance.
When the difference between two successive steps is less than
the minimum interval between the maximum rate of oscillations,
then two successive oscillations would be counted as one or as
occuring simultaneously. The ability to discriminate the fine
time cycle difference is lost and the counts rate gets reduced. The
maximum rate of oscillation is limited by self similar ratio and
the value of 1/c1+x and two counts merge into one. It depicts a
sharp square wave timing when the maximum and minum rates
occur at the same instant.
312
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Equation S.61.A. It shows the ratio at which a count merges and
semms to dissappear. The effect is to reduce the count rate at this
boundary and being lower higher count rates drift toards it. This
action increases the vibratory stress in it and results in increase
in mass or inertia and delays the reaction.




The transition from single vibration to a merged or coupled
vibration at 20 to 21 count rates is clearly show above. This
count rate corresponds to a rate at which a Mahadvikrithi is
formed is a clue as to why Me is exposed as a detectable and an
ensemble with mass is detected. If that merged count is to be
realeased the count rate must be increased to above 21 so the
time interval is reduced to allow the merged count to be rekeased
to act freely. But this point being a coherent or simultaneous
state , a whole ensemble of vibrations would be released at once.
The energy released would seem to be more but conservation
law is not violated because the work done in synchronising over
a period of time is now equated to releasing a whole ensemble
instantly. The impulse momentum equation would show its
balanced state.
Equation, S.61 B. The balanced nuclear state absorbs one
Vikrithi Ne in which the angular displacements in both the
coherent and synchronous state are absorbed. To release aVrithi
or photon 7 Ne units must be released simultaneously. But that is
not possible in the values shown below. Hence nothing would be
released after attaining balance by absorption unless triggered by
an unbalancing interaction of 7 Ne or more.



313
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




314
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 62.
62. Interactions are cause of manifestation as a holographic
          phenomenon.

thasmannabadhyate napi        muchyathe
therefore-not-bound nor even released
napi     samsrathi kaschith.
nor even transmigrated neither
samsrathi badyathe muchyathe cha
transmigrated bound      released       only
nanaashraya prakrithi
never resting oscillations

Meaning: Therefore nothing is bound, released or translocated.
Only the oscillatory wave forms of interactions is bound or
superposed by synchronisation, released by desynchronisation
and transferred by transmigration due to unequal displacements
and this dynamic state continues endlessly.
Explanation: Therefore the concept of a particle concept of a
particulate form is motion is an illusion. What moves are the
stresses caused by th interactions . These stresses move as
collective ensembles periodically. Hence the concept of particles
bound by by a force being released by another force is to be
revised and gain the correct understanding that what really
transmigrates is a vibratory form of waves caused by the
interaction between two undetectable objects in the substratum
of space. This state can only be descibed appropriately by the
term hologram. The vibrating or oscillating state is defined by
the prakrithi value and the summation of all such states in one
coherent ensemble that resembles a passive or static ensemble is
the Purusha value. The never resting oscillations are epitomised
by an axiomatic state defined as Rs = 1.020408163265 .
An important conclusion comes out of this concept. No object
can move in a plenitude of the same. The field of space
comprising components that provide the foundation for an
315
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
interaction cannot move. It can attempt to move but being
confined it can only cause a stress by impacting with others. The
stresses so created can transmigrateacross components is in a
sequential manner within the cyclic period of an interaction, thus
depicting three-dimensional or cubic waveforms. If the
waveforms of stress are close and superposed a continuum of
stress is created in the field of comonents thus creating the
illusion of a solid framework in motion, from which the concept
of particles in motion has arisen.
Equation S.62. The transcendantal ratios for continued resonance
in both compressive and expansive modes




    Equation S.62 A. Both Purusha Kx and Mahadprakrithi Mps
states are equated to perpetual resonance rs and that is a positive
indication that there is no force in any form is required to
maintain the dynamic state, endlessly.




    Equation S.62 B. The Prakrith saptha PM and Vikrithi saptha
Ne also remain in perpetual balance in the same mode. It is a
critical state of balance as Ne is harmonic state and
transmigration is at the slightest unbalance is indicated but
despite that at the balanced state it has a perpetual dynamism.




    Equation S.62 C. The Mahadvikrithi Me being a reactive state
to the Mahadpakrithi Mps, has qn unstable position. While the
316
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Me state must exist always because Mps is a perpetually
interactive process. Me resonates at the PM interface to remain
in balance and that shift into the first expansive boundary creates
atransmigratory state. Hence Me the electron must trnslocate
constantly to maintain balance.




    Equation S.62 D. The Boundary of the Universe at a radial
distance of RU at which distance the Vrithi or photon decays
back into the substratum and is absorbed , maintaing the
Abhaavath state necessy for a perputal dynamism. The state of
resonance is maintained but the same degree of translocation as
the Me, is also reflected at this position, which indicates a
transmigratory state of stress due to absorption of decaying
photons.




   The conclusion from this Sutra is that there are no such things
as particles but only oscillatory ensembles ranging from the
Purusha state to the moolaprakrithi and its aggregates leading to
a Galaxy. Because the Vrithi or photon decays at RU every
observer will see the same depth or spherical volume of his
Universe from his location. Manifestation is a conservative and
democratic process at every level.



317
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                        Suthra 63.
Interaction.

Rupai: sapthabhirevabadnathya
Forms seventh-level-upto-superposes
athmaanamaathmana
-self-potential-by-self potential
prakrithi :
oscillatory waveforms
saiva cha purushartham prathy
equal to nuclear-potential but
vimochayatya eka rupena .
   process of release by one form.

Meaning: The oscillatory waveforms superposition itself by its
own self-potential to form the nuclear density by compressing
it’s waveforms to the seventh power when it becomes equal to
the maximum nuclear potential in coherent form and when it
expands and radiates it releases one waveform at a time.
Explanation: The nuclear potential is created by itself due to its
coherent state and the levels of superpositioning action rises to
seven when it equals the maximum potential that can be
maintained by the interactive state in resonant balance. As
explained in Suthra 3 an intercation higher rate of intercation
drifts towards lower rates because of nonsynchrony. Only if an
interactive stress form is countered by a similar stress form at the
same rate can the location of the intercation remain at the same
position cycle after cycle. Else the point of impact or collision
must move toward another location. This drift seems to be a
force of attraction. Hence if a countering stress form fails to meet
on oncoming one it will ultimately end up at the very source of
the opposing one. That leads to aggregation and superpositioning
which results in a larger number of counts being registered
within a cycle. Hence density or mass has increased.

318
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Mathematical formula: The moolaprakrithi My interaction at
the ultimate level rises to seven when the mahad prakrithi Mps
reaches oscillatory states superpose to attain the coherent state.
Then the entire ensemble oscillates as one single unit. When it
breaks coherence it releases one entire set or ensemble in one
instant as a vrithi. It is equal value to a unit electic charge based
on planck’s constant and is shown below.

Equation S 63. The superpositioning density by synchronising
along all three axis as K leads to the maximum density Dp and
realease of one level equals a unit of charge. Dp is the value of
planck desnsity and the charge Eo equals the electronic charge as
shown below. It is the ultimate self-similar density of Mps.




The values of h , C and alpha are from figures published in
standard physics texts based on natural units. These are shown
in the section on Symbols.

Equation S.63 A. Because Dp is created on its own potential the
interaction has a simultaneous balancing density Dm. It is the
density of MahadVikrithi or Me . The release of one unit is the
electronic charge couplng constant.



    The Mahadprakrithi and Mahadvikrithi are the compressive
and expansive oscillatory counterparts due the polarisation of c14
into (c1+x)7 (c1-x)7 simultaneously or within the interactive cycle.

319
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 64.

64. The coherent self-potential creates ground state.

evam       thathvaabhyaasannaasthi
confirmed fundamental-research non-existence
na mey        nahmithyaaparishesham .
not interactive confinement-measure-supplementing
aviparyayadvishudham
unchanged-undistorted
kevalamuthpadhyathe jnaanama
singular-source-of-origin potential-sink

Meaning: Therefore fundamental resarch establishes that non
existence (of potential ), and not due to any precise interactive
measure of supplementary control, that a pure changeless ground
state exists.
Explanation: Special attention is drawn to the cause of the
existence of a ground or zero state towards which interactive
activity will drift towards. Here total synchronisation in timing
between axis causes the apparent reduction or dissappearance of
of interactive response or reaction and therefore the interactions
at a higher rate of oscillation drift or transmigrate towards the
lower state. It seems as though it is attracting the interactions
towards a source that seems massive and slow to respond. But
that is just an appearance of an attractive forceacting at a
distance which does not really exist.
When in interactive stress transmigrates across the components,
an opposing interaction would end it by an interactive exchange.
However if the opposing reaction fails to appear then the original
stress transmigration ensemble would continue till it is opposed.
If the rate of opposing interaction is very low or nil the other is
absorbed as a synchronously vibrating stress count. The inactive
state increases by the stress count value that is reflected as an
increase in inertia, mass or delaying ensemble. The increment
320
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
occurs because it syncronises with the lower rate vibration or
oscillation and attains a relatively restful or passive state.
Though the total stress count has increased it seems to oscillates
at a lower rate because many counts act together or
simultaneously. As an example of ten people clap individually
one after another cyclically the ten counts per cycle is detectable.
But if all ten people clap together, only one massive count would
have been detected, over a longer time interval. The total count
per cycle however remains the same. This is the reason that the
rest mass radiates c2 counts of vibrations as energy because the
vibrations along two axis that was synchronised and was counted
as c , now on release, becomes non synchronous and the counts
are detected individually.
 Stating it differently the superposed nuclear density is only due
to the slower interactive response and the oncoming interactive
states sink into this lowest activity state of Kx.
Equation.S.64. Kx the Purusha state in the coherent superposed
phase of c3-2 equals a single Mahadparakrithi Mps state.The
Prakrithi saptha or PM in the synchronous state shows the
Purusha potential has been reduced by c2 to allow the PM build
up. The PM state grows into the Mps state as c 3 superposes and
synchronises along two axis in exchange for allowing Px to be
absorbed along the axial direction over the spectrum of 7rs
levels. Similarly the Vikrithi saptha Ne state tunnels to increase
c3 to c4 in exchange for interactive synchrony along two axis at
the boundary of the 7th spectral level.




   The Kx state being the densest andhathamisra state absorbs
the interactive counts to maintain its amaximum mass of the
coherent potential as a ground or activity sink, like a heat sink.

321
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 65.

65. The state of coherence when the nuclear boundary is in
          balance.

thena        nivritthaprasavaamarthavashaath
consequently hidden-source-potential-absorb
saptharupavinivritthaam.
Seven-forms-reducing-boundary-activity
prakrithim pashyathi purusha:
oscillations-inactive- nucleus
prekshakavadhavasthhith: svastha:.
Ground-state-location          coherent state.

Meaning: When the oscillatory interactions are minimised
because of the reduction in activity between the boundary and
nuclear core, the interactive current becomes neutral and the
activities at the seven radial levels becomes insignificant, the
Purusha attains a dense superposed coherent ground state.
Explanation: As the interactions move towards the nuclear
location because the intercative reaction comes at a slower rate
as it combines together by synchronisation and though the
overall count number remains the same but the response interval
becomes longer. The count numbers at twice the radial level
would reduce by 22 =4 at the radial level by cobining into sets of
4 through synchronisation. Hence the interval too wound
lengthen proportionately. At half the radial level it woud reduce
the count again by the same factor and similarly increase the
interval. As a result an exponentially increasing count rate would
transmigrate towards the nuclear region that would have gained
counts in incremental sets while the interval would have
increased by a similar rate. When the entire nuclear ensemble
reaches a resonant rate consistent with the states surrounding it
to maintain a synchronous in step oscillatory rate the inflowing

322
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
counts would be balanced by the oscillation of the entire
boundary of the nuclear region in a coherent but oscillatory state.
Equation S.65. The first expansive state of 23 =8 at resonance
Reaches a coherent level by absorption or superpositioning of
oscillations that sums up to 1/7 . The absorption of counts by
expandning in two modes of radial and linear sequences reduces
the Purusha state to just 1/7 as shown below.




Equation S.65A. The interactions at the boundary combine and
synchronise to act together and thereby the decrease in count rate
motivates the transmigration of counts towards the coherent
level. The ratio of Mps/Kx and Mps/PM absorption of counts
shows the spectrum of seven levels are involved both ways.




Equation S.65 B . The neutral or ground level Vrithi Ne or
photon has a neutral current of approx. 1/49th at balance. Hence
the activity at the boundary remains at a fraction but not inert
and indicactes a synchronous activity but not coherent state.




Equation S.65 C. The activity at the Prakrithi-saptha or PM and
Mahadvikrithi or Me boudary is at 1/343rd level.




323
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 66.

66. State of balance by eliminating the potential to act.

Dhrishta mayethupekshak           ekau
observation consisting-variety-neutral one
drishtaahamithyuparamithyanya .
observation-movement-measure-ceases-other .
sathisamyogey’api thayo.
Existence-adjacent even though
prayojanam nasthi         sargasya .
benefit       non existence manifestation .

Meaning: Observing the neutral state of one gives the proof that
the observable movement of the other has ceased and now even
though both are together no interactive manifestation can be
detected.
Explanation: As the nuclear boundary is in a lower state of
vibration and registers a lower count rate, the measure of activity
can be gauged or detected by observing the state of the outer
resonant boundary. But when that activity level too becomes
undetectable then there is no transmigration of interactive
responses to trigger or display any type of manifest phenomenon.
Equation S. 66. The difference at the interface where the
Prakrithi Saptha or PM and the Mahad Vikrithi or Me attain
balance at the minimum rate of 3 or 4 interactions per cycle
show the negative value at 3 and positive at 4 index




The value at 4 though positive is just 1/18 in excess of the value
of 7 Ne’s needed to radiate a vrithi or photon that could be
measured . Hence at the resonant interface the
324
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
interactive activity is extremely small and is not detectable as a
positive radiative value.

Equation S.66 A, shows the positive value at index 4. The
positive value equals exactly 377 electron volts of energy and as
a unit of charge contributes an ampere/sec the impedance is 377
ohms.




Equation S.66 B, shows that the positive value at the interactive
rate of 4, is just 1/18 over the value a 7 vrithi rate required to
radiate a detectable count rate.




The esential nature of this interface remains at a gentle
interactive level till a disturbance triggers an unbalanced state to
motivate transmigration of counts both ways. The 1/18th
corresponds to the 18 andhathaamisra states and unless all 18
states are triggered simultaneously no Vrithi or Photon will be
radiated. It decays when all 18 coherent levels are reduced to one
over a time cycle duration of TT=2.02084475E+17 or 6.4 billion
years.



325
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 67.
67. Conversion of kinetic force into static potential as inertia or
          mass

samyagjnanaadhigamadharmadinam
synchronously-potential-acquire-by-axiomatic-laws
akaaranapraptau.
selfsimilar-process.
thishtathi sanskaaravashaa
trigered_input-reactions-absorbed
chakrabramhavaddhrithah sharirah.
like-flywheel-rigidity            inertial mass


Meaning: The basic principle of acquiring a mass is by
synchronous superpositioning of oscillatory interactions on
components into a coherent and super symmetric state that is
relatively static by triggering the spin angular momentum to be
synchronised perfectly. Thereby acquire a coherent potential or
dense state by superpositining of interactive states by a self
similar proportion or law .
Explanation. The enigma of how the mass of solid bodies could
be formed by vibrations or oscillatory stress in the real field of
space. The derivation of many principles in the previous Suthras
are used to construct the process of generating a body with mass
or solidity characteristics from a purely oscillatory state. The
axiomatic causes of why detection becomes impossible was
explained. Further it was shown the three guna states could not
exist unless there was a background state with specific qualities.
The point of discussion here is that when vibrations synchronise
and act simultaneously as a coherent unit then the fundamental
components in space get defined and its outline gives
characteristics of solidity or substantiality. When interactions act
in the same place they seem to be stable. Again when the number
of interactions in a single location increases then the
326
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
characteristics of firmness, solidity or inertial states that display
qualities emerge.
In order to sustain the vaibrating state the laws of perpetual
oscillations governed by the principle of self similarity in a
confined domain are needed to maintain that state.The Suthra
puts these factors together to show through the concept of a
flywheel how the momentum built up keeps the spinning object
in that state. While it is an analogy, the principle of self
similarity is emulated by the flywheel concept. The mass in
motion is always moving ahead of a location in a small fraction
of time. Hence any change to the flywheel motion must be
initiated to preceed the location at which the change is reqired.
Self similarity qualities in the three guna laws do that precisely.
Three levels of absorption of counts will be shown as an
example of how mass is aquired by converting angual
momentum.
Equation S.67. Shows the derivation of (2π/10) as an interaction.
Since all three axis must be in an identical state to maintain
coherence the ‘spin’ at boundary yields Px as the absorption
value.




Equation S.67A. The ratio of Kx, the Purusha state to PM the
Prakrithi saptha or nucleonic state per cycle is Px. Similarly the
Mahadrakrithi Mps has the same ratio Px when c3 has reduced to
c by synchronising along two axis in exchange for 7 rs
incremental cycles of the PM expanded state.




327
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
very effectively shows that the absorption of c 2 for 7rs has
changed the Kx state to the Mps state within the Px cycle. The
conversion of angular momentum to a coherent state is
confirmed by the equivalence of Px.

Equation S.67B.




The Ne Vikrithi Saptha has increased by c into K7 times to
create the Prakrithi saptha state of coherence at the nuclear
boundary within the same Px cycle. Therefore Kx. Mps, PM and
Ne are all equivalent states in varying cyclic periods and can
maintain the coherent state when synchronised along all three
axis. In that state no manifestation would be evident as the
oscillatory phases operate in the self similar mode inside the
coherent boundary. The point at which two axis synchronise is
determined by the vectorial difference in the interval between
two adjacent oscillatory states. If the interval between two
adjacent sequences as n and n+1 is smaller than 1/(c1+x )2, which
is the smallest interval possible between oscillatory states
between two axis, then the discriminatory interval becomes
virtually nil. Hence two interactions would act simultaneously
when the difference in the interactive interval is less than 1/c 1+x
as shown below.




328
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




Equation S.67C.




329
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 68.

The final synchronised, coherent , dynamic state of isolated
         nucleus.


prapthey sharirabhedhey charithaarthathvath
acquiring mass-conversion       by synchronous balance
pradhanavinivriththau
primary-activiy-diminishing-cyclic-vortex
aikaanthikamaathyanthikamubhayam
coherence-endless-action-simultaneously
kaivalyamaapnothi
perpetual-activity-accomplished

  Meaning. The process of acquiring mass is given effect by
superpositioning the interactive vortex like waveforms by
conversion into a gradually diminishing cyclic interaction that
reaches a synchronised, coherent and balanced state within the
first or primary activity boundary. The coherent state in which
activity is simultaneous creates no hindrance to maintain the
synchronised cyclic oscillatory action perpetually.
Explanation: Recalling that the statements from the first Sutra
had defined the conditions needed for the three forms of stresses
to exist a state of coherent, perpetual , dynamic but unmanifest
state. The gradual superpositioning of interactive stresses by
absorption due to reducing interactie counts produced the
unmanifest state. That ensured that the superposed stresses
would remain in a coherent state as the process of manifestation
was solely responsible for unsynchronised and unbalanced
activity. Therefore the interactivity being confined within the
primary activity boundary following self similar laws assured
that the transfer of interactive stresses at the lower rate would aid
or augment the activity internally and thereby eliminate an
hindrance or obstruction or friction or delay that would bring the

330
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
oscilatory activity to a stop. Therefore as the required conditions
for ensuring a free set of conditions that eliminated the triad of
stressess had been established the maintainence perpetual
oscillatory activity was made certain and therefore accomplished
finally.
Additional Comments: The first Suthra stated “Investigating
the triad of interactive stresses confirms that such interactive
modes of stresses exist but it would not have been detectable,
had it not been for the existence of the coherent - perpetual -
dynamic - unmanifest state of its existence (of the substratum). “
Referring to the first Suthra the logic of the conditional statement
in it is proved :The final proof of the entire spectrum of
manifestation after sequentially analysing the logical factors is
given in this Suthra. The opening Suthra itself follows the
principle of looping back to create a circular rationale by
choosing a phraseology that elliptically negates itself. The triad
of stresses is a reference to the guna interactive states of Thaama,
Raja and sSatwa. This Suthra explains how the Satwic nature of
the vortex like interaction of the un-synchronised waveforms
outside the primary boundary or Pradhana state, drift towards the
nuclear centre because it is in a relative state of rest due to the
coherent and synchronised condition of the Purusha location.
The Raja region closer to the Sathwa interface has a larger
oscillatory count rate but at the other end near the Purusha
interface the oscillations combine or superpose together and act
simultaneously as a coherent set of synchronised vibrations with
a diminished count rate. As the oscillatory ensemble drift
towards the centre the superpositioning quality increases the
density of stresses residing in it and when the inertia or mass and
at a particular point the superpositioning density reaches a
maximum , all detectable oscillatory movements synchronise and
act together in a coherent breathing mode or a whole spherical
surface vibrates as a unit. Therefore the innermost boundary is
isolated or screened by the outer spherically oscillating surface.
The inner, static, stationery, passive, dense with maximum
number of oscillations simultaneously occupying this location at
331
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the nuclear Purusha core acts as potential sink but because of the
screening spherical boundary it can never become active enough
to lose its’ attracting potential or sink status. The screening
spherical surface in the breathing mode is in an interactive Raja
state that carries out the change from a sequential oscillatory
state to a parallel or simultaneous super posed state. Since this
conversion takes place over a rate changing factor of 2, there are
(8-1) 7 intermediate levels of change as explained in Suthra 3 ,
those describing the Guna states and Suthras 63 & 65. The most
important underlying principle is that all the descriptions pertain
ONLY to vibrations taking place on or in the undetectable
components of the substratum The entire theory is based on
analysing the holographic state of the substratum.
Mathematical : The most rigorous condition for perpetual
oscillations require that every stable state must be capable of the
unmanifest or zero radiative level certifying the maintenence of
an unhindered or friction free state exists. Here all such states are
shown to equal 23=8. The symbols are explained in the index
section and the derivation in axiomatic derivation section.
Equation S.68.
The perpetual oscillator
 state :


Equation S.68.A
Fundamental unmanifest
level:


Equation S.68B
Axiomatic coupling
Constants :

Equation S.68C
Space Stress
Density:
332
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The neutral level forming the ground state of manifestation:




Equation S.68E
The Thaamasic or coherent level :




Equation S.68F
The Linga/Bhava interface of Prakrithi-Vikrithi level:




Equation S.68G
The Abhiman/Ahankar interface of Vikrithi Vikaro level




Equation S.68H
The Mass of the Universe is conserved or space is unmanifest:




Equation S.68I
Final proof that all forms of interactive stresses are conserved
and the unmanifest state is maintined. Neither should stresses be
radiated beyond the radius of the Univrse nor should it absorrb
333
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
from outside the Universal boundary. Vrithis or photons cannot
be radiated beyond the radius of the Universe RU:

Equation S.68J




Unless the vrithis are absorbed within the boundary the balance
in maintaining the space density at the critical level that would
ensure non absorption of stresses from outside its boundary is
needed as proof. For they may not be stresses outside the
boundary but rigor of logic is maintained by that proof: Equation

The stressess in the substratum are kept in oscillation for a very
efficient reason. Oscillations compress and expand alternately
creating two opposing types stressess. If there is a delay then the
different stresses will oppose each other to set in the process of
decay that will eventually reduce the motivating cause for the
oscillation. But if the two opposing forms of stress can be timed
such that it aids each oscillation in the right direction at the right
time then it can continue endlessly. But to continue perpetually
no work or or energy output should take place for only then the
infinite time aspect can be logically supported. Again to fulfill
the no work state there should not be any observable movement.
If there is no movement or no change in short such a state cannot
be detected, for detection is a relative measuring process. Then
the substratum would seem passive, static, quiet, inactive and so
on. Only the transmigration of streses would continue as a
hidden activity that does not invlve the expenditure of energy.
Then it would seem flat.




334
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




            Fig. The Coherent Perpetual Oscillator .

The graphic displayed above shows the stresses in the
substratum as though a membrane exists at the neutral location.
But in real terms nothing would be detected unless the vibrations
remained in the same laocation as a coherent stress form thus
fulfilling the holographic state fundamentals. Lower diagrams
show the three phases of change within a cycle as three
oscillatory phases. The middle phase displays a flat state of zero
activity and as long as the stress excursions remain equal above
and below the neutral state the nett result of all the oscillatoty
activity will be zero within the cycle. The stress transmigration
takes place when the 90 deg. Phase difference of the coherent
cycle is upset which results in a wave transfer.that seems to be a
quadrupole rotation. Observation averaged over a cycle will
display the flat state in the middle diagram. Hence space seems
undetectable.
335
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
A.Positive excursion of oscillation




B.Neutral excursion of oscillation.
336
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




            Fig. A,B,C. The Neutral Oscillator State.

C.Negative excursion of oscillation.




337
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 69.
The knowledge of the nuclear potential is codified in this work

Purushaarthajnaanam idham
nuclear potential theory in this work
guhyam paramarshina samakhyatam
secret by the greatest maharishi encoded or framed
sthithi-yuthpatti-pralayas
 origin growth and dissolution
chintyante yatra bhuthanam.
 intellectual ascertainment of existing reality.

Meaning: The knowledge of the nuclear potential is encoded in
this work by the great Maharishi where-in the method of
intellectually ascertaining the process of manifestation of
phenomenon from its origin, through its growth and till its
dissolution are explained.
Explanation: The essence of this entire intellectual creation was
to lay bare the process of the complex holographic interaction in
three modes within the substratum , which was defined in the
first Suthra and was proved unequivocally by an elliptical logic
connecting Suthra 68. The core principal identified the ever
present potential at the nuclear centre as the primary cause.
Being a complex intellectual process, the Maharishi took
precautions to ensure its correct interpretation by the following
process.
The process of disseminating knowledge through the ages, in
Vedic times, was by vocal recitation of logical theorems or
aphorisms and it was handed down to the next generation. The
method was perfected by a brahmanical system of training that
made sure of the correctness of information so transmitted. In
order to doubly ensure that the essence of the core principles
were transmitted in its original and pure form, the Maharishi had
encoded the vital information into the Suthras that apparently
had a general everyday meaning and also gave a method of
338
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
extracting the original meaning , intact and correct, in Suthras 4,
5 & 6. Since there was every possibility of the information
getting corrupted, either in ignorance or intentionally, the
encoding process provided a high degree of immunity. Since the
information had to be transmitted through generations of
students , there was always the temptation to alter or modify
apparently un-understandable abstruse or complex information
into more meaningful structures. The Maharishi had the
intellectual acumen and skill to weave in the axiomatic theorems
into a skeletal framework of mundane statements which provided
logical continuity and intelligibility and at the same time the
needed immunity from restructuring the Suthras. In Suthras 70,
the history of the handing over process is specifically mentioned
to demonstrate it’s integrity of transmission.




339
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 70.
The hierarchy of information transmission
ethath pavithramagrayam t
this    pure-highest-doctrine
munirasuraye’anukampayaa pradhadhau
the sage asuri   with understanding handed down
aasurirapi pancasikhaya
from asuri to panchasikha
tena    cha bahudhaa krtham thanthram
by whom it was extensively propagated doctrine

Meaning: This pure and highest doctrine the sage gave to Asuri
who in turn handed down to Panchasikha by whom it was
extensively propogated as the perfect set of principles explaining
the mode of action in reality.
Explanation: The eminent disciples or students of the great Sage
followed the brahmanical process of handing down knowledge
through generations mentioned earlier.
The final process of handing over this doctrine down the line
culminated with Ishwarkrishna.




340
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         Suthra 71.
The final verification and recording by Ishwarakrishna.
Shisyaparamparyaagathamishwarakrishnanena
chaithadaaryabhi
samkshipthamaaryamathina
samyaagvijnayasiddhanthau

Meaning: Handed down by disciples in               succession to
Ishwarakrishna of noble mind, it has been written in a complete
and understable way in the Arya metre after verifying the
correctness and presented with full conviction of the truth of this
theory.




341
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
           Axiomatic Mathematics From Suthras.
                            Introduction
The process of detection, measurement, observation, defining
and characterising are based on relational logic. Essentially it is a
process of comparison implying that objects are necessary to
make it meaningful. Therefore absolute values have no relevance
for it cannot be compared to establish a logical, scale or
proportinality. Hence, one, the first unit can be made relative by
comparing it to another one. One/one is one and so is infinity /
infinity and also forms its own reciprocal. The 1/1 or N/N or
infimity/infiniy is an identity of a state. The singular, coherent,
simultaneous state of Aikantha. Yet the N or infinity is a
sequence of incremental numbers which can represent the
number of interactions that have taken place simultaneously.
Any state that can be identified has a distinct characteristic of
one as 1/1 or N/N etc. or difference of zero as (1/1)-(N/N) =0.
Such a characteristic is defined as the Linga phase in an
interactive environment.
The converse of the above is an open ended spectrum of non-
identities or plurality of phases of difference states. The limit of
such states is as large as 1/infinity. In effect all such states that
cannot be included in the identities fall into the phase called
Bhava or forms. Axiomatially all phenomena can be classified
by numerical values only when they are perceived as 3
dimensional states. While the Linga or coherent states are
simultaneous the Bhava states are sequential states While 1/1 or
N/N identifies a simultaneous state the sequential state has to be
1+1 etc. Taking the sequential state as the commencement of the
unbalanced or unsynchronised or non-cherent or a non identity
then it can be symbolically shown as 1 + x and its reciprocal as
1/1+x .
The essence of an identity is the equality of that ratio to one.
Therefore if a sequence can be expressed as a ratio of one then it
too attains an identity or the Linga classification. That is if a
value (1+x /n)=1 and if it can be further simplified to 1+x =1/x
then a unique state prevails. At this point simultaneous state
342
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
equals sequential state or Linga equals Bhava . Rephrasing, it
defines the commencement point at which cyclic time-period
equals the sequential cycle. Hence static and dynamic cycles can
be compared as an equal identity and can be commuted to either
classification. The starting point for a sequential time period is
the point at which manifestation can be detected as an emerging
Bhava. A clock is an indicator of a cyclic movement and is based
on an arbitrary division. But an interaction between similar
objects sets up a relational cycle, following the principle of ‘self-
similar’ proportionality.
The concept of a potential is clarified as the coherent state in
which any number of sequential time-cycles are organised or
stored within one time cycle. The Linga state is the potential
‘static like state’ of near infinite Bhava states. Potential can be
described as unreleased or stored stresses and when freed it
moves or accelerates as a kinetic force. The identity or the
equality is defined by the expression 1+x = 1/x or taking it to
infinite levels it is (1+x)n = 1/xn ; hence (1+x)n (xn )=1 . The
coherent state is now definable in terms of sub-states or nested
level values by a single value of x. The concept of self-similarity
or swabhava is brought out as an explicit principle that quantifies
the coherent states which can be discriminated to finer or subtler
levels as relational value to the Bhava state of activity in an
interactive environment. It unifies static and dynamic concepts
meaningfully by a single factor.
The unit one above has the unique characteristic of retaining its
identity while it is able to differentiate into infinite nested level
values without losing its proportionality. Differenting one does
not lead to zero for it always has the ratio of 1/x in relation to its
its sequential reciprocal 1+x. Adding 1 to 1 creates the next step
in the sequence to the value of its sum as two. It is a ratio as 2/1
and its reciprocal ½ has two unique characteristics. It defines the
centre of a cyclic time period or a length. Half forms the
maximum gradient as a third, quarter, fifth etc are smaller
ratios.Therefore ½ forms the limit of a change in a relational

343
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
state and all expressions for rates of change can be derived from
within this ratio. Being the greatest ratio it is called Mahath.
Taking 2 as the incremental, relative spatial or volumetric will
increase proportionately as 23 = 8. The relative difference
between the two states will therefore be 8-1=7. If this difference
of 7 units are coherent , synchronous or identical the identified
difference per cycle of change will remain 7. But if there is a loss
of synchrony, coherence, phase or identity, the 7 will increase to
73 = 343. Rephrasing it differently, the increment or expansion of
the Linga state by the maximum rate of two in a state of freedom
from constraints, the maximum Bhava forms possible 73 =343
variations and the minimum cyclic period as the reciprocal will
be 1/343=.002915. It defines the maximum period in a cycle
where one particular forma or state of interaction will prevail. (In
quantum physics blackbody radiatian maximises at a wavelength
of .0029 metres where velocity of light is in meters/sec. Also the
Atharvaveda’s first Sloka mentions 343 forms that move about
freely are the cause of dynamic phenomenon.) Because all other
intervals will be proportionate to a smaller gradient the value of
1/343 will be the maximum. A gradient of 1/3 will result in a
shorter cyclic period on the same basis; as 1/(33-
1)3=1/263=1/17576.
Combinatorial forms based on a maximum interactive ratio of 2
would form the limit. Aggregation of such forms would proceed
on the same proportionality of ½ or 2 as the ratio. Hence a
combination of two neighbouring states as n and (n+1) will
follow the expression (n2 +n)/2 will result in a series as 1, 3,
6,10,15,21,28,36,45,55 etc as the sum of values incremented by
one at each step or cycle. This process sseks the incremental
value at the next sequence or is future oriented. It progresses on
the basis of a sequence formed by incremental time cycles.
The process of adding past values or states that exist results in a
series with a fixed ratio of increment. As 0+1=1, 1+1=2, 2+1=3,
3+2=5, 5+3=8, 8+5:=13, 13+8=21, 21+13=34, 34+21=55 and
55+34=89 etc. But the ratio or gradient of the increment remains
constant as 1+x=1.618. Comparing this gradient or ratio with the
344
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
maximim ratio of 1 by 2 results in a vectorial increment rate. The
process of adding instantly or simultaneously leads to a
multiplicative or logarithmic process. Then the past state of 2
can be only in a cubic or three dimensional form of 23 = 8. Any
sequential or time involving adding process leads to 8+2 =10
which is the first possible state from the past form. Therefore it
forms the first detectable cycle when simultaneous and
sequential processes act on a an equal foundation. Next, the
simultaneous increment, and leads to 8 x 2 = 16 = 24 as detailed
in Suthra 30.
Note: As the logical order of the compact Sutras in Sanskrit are
different from the normal methods used in the present scientific
system of presentation, Part 1 has been specifically rewritten to
reorder the mathematical presentation. Hence all detailed
mathematical information is contained in Part 1 and is presented
in a way that makes it independent of the run of logic in Part 2.
     However a few of the constants are derived here for
mmediate reference.
                       Numerical Derivation.
Unit = 1.
Ratio = [1/1] = [N/N] = [∞ / ∞] =1.
Polarisation ratio Pr = N/ [N-1] = 1 + (1/ [N-1])
If N=1 then 1/1-1 = 1/0 = not evaluatable.
If N=1+1= 2 then 2/[2-1] = 2/1 or 1 / 2 .
If N= ∞ then ∞ /[∞ - 1] = 1 + [(1/[∞ - 1]) ≈ 1.
Therefore Maximum Prm is 1 / 2 or 2 / 1.
Mahadh = 1 / 2 or greatest ratio of interaction.      (AM1)
Simultaneous = 1/1] = [N/N] = [∞ / ∞] =1.
Sequential =1 + [(1/[∞ - 1]) to 1 + (1/ [N-1])
Therefore numerical values greater than 1 as 2,3 ,4 etc are
correct only if it is measured as simultaneous ratios as 3/1 etc.
Series of incremental nos= 1+2+3+4+5>> (n2 + n)/2
As 1,3,6,10,15 etc.
Series of existing nos= 1+1=2; 2+1=3, 3+2=5, 5+3=8, etc


345
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

Interactive change ratio =                                                                (AM2)

Self-similar change of Prm 1 / 2 = 0.5
In simultaneous mode if x = 0.5 + 0.118034 =0.618034.
Then simultaneously x2 must = 0.5-0.118034=0.381966
Hence simultaneous difference 0.618034-0.381966 = 0.236068
Therefore x3 must = 0.1180339+0.118039=.236068
If (x-x2) is not equal to x3 the simultaneous state is broken.
Therefore the ratio x3 provides a damping constraint to maintain
the simultaneous mode of interaction else it remains a sequential
interaction.
    Field consists of numerous points in a volume of space. The
point remains in the same location because all three axis from all
the cardinal directions meet at the same point simultaneously.
Any volume of space is
Therefore if the unit of interactive count is 1 then 1
                  G               . Kx . rs
                 PM
                      3
                 Rp                                                        23
                                               = 6.0242184582        10
                   PM

                      G                       . Kx . rs
                          1
                          3
                 Dp           . DD
                DD              Ge                                                   23
                                                          = 6.0242184582        10
                          PM


The Avogadro number is an axiomatic parameter based on the
time interval created by the nuclear density.
                          1
                          3
                 Dp           .       DD        . P x = 0.6647897608
                DD                    x 3        KV
                                  c         . Kx
                          1
                          3
                 Dp. DD = 0.6647897608
346             DD   Pd
         Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.



                   1
                   3
               3                                              3
      M ps . R U                                  M ps . R p
      Lp M U                                      Lp PM
        3                                           3
                       = 0.6647897608                                 = 0.6647897608
          3                                                       2
       R U . PM
                                                              3 3
       M U R p3                                M ps . R U
                                                  Lp M U
                                                    3


The basic mathematical axioms.
The numeral one is a ratio signifying equality or zero difference.
The value of a count is a relative parameter and 1 count is 1
count per unit cycle.

                                ( 2)                              6
Px                          1                             1
     = 22.898689 log                   = 22.895957                    = 0.280379
Kx                          x                           x x

 MU .      3                             my
        Lp = 0.280393                            = 0.280523
  my                                   Ke. DD. 7



           2


         1.5


           1


         0.5



                        2              4      6           8             10         12
347
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.


                 Fig: Derivation Of Cyclic Counts
The straight line= D and dotted id= D2 while squares = Dx.

                             3
                            x        1               n
                    D1                     Dn                D1
                            2        10              10

                                      3                  2
                    Dxn          Dn       Dn        Dn


                     Dx n
                         0.1024575141
                         0.1601300899
                         0.1847206264
                         0.1702291236
                         0.1106555815
                                           17
                     5.5511151231 . 10
                             0.1677376208
                             0.3985572809
                             0.6984589803
                             1.0734427191


The axiomatic cycle of 10 counts is derived from the
synchronisation of different additive and subtractive results.

   0.6

   0.5

   0.4

   0.3

   0.2

   0.1


                2                4              6             8   10
348
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

             Fig: Third Order Damping Constraint
The dotted curve shows powers of 0.618.
                        1                    1
          An    1                Bn    1
                        n                    n


                    2            2                                      n
               An           Bn                                  2
                                      1 .2           1   ( 2)       1
                    Bn
                                                            2
                  0                              0.6180339887
          0.1081851068                           0.3819660113
          0.2360679775                           0.2360679775
          0.3323807579                           0.1458980338
          0.4037008503                           0.0901699437
          0.4578072192                             0.05572809
                 0.5                             0.0344418537
          0.5337231669                           0.0212862363
           0.561249695                           0.0131556175
          0.5841218916                           0.0081306188



The third order damping constraint is shown as the outcome of
self-similar interactions. The number of nodes in a length can be
counted but the number of waveforms in a node cannot be
counted. If there are a number of sequential events occuring
periodically it can be counted but the simultaneous events
formed within the sequential period can not be determined. All
simultaneous interactions contribute to the concept of mass,
density, inertia etc.




349
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
               Fig: Concept Of Vortex As Vrithi


stress curves along all three axis in asynchronous state outside
the central coheent state. The curves at the central position have
an cyclic period interval less than 1/ 5e+13 and therefore present
continuoes field of stress values.

Because




350
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




           Fig: Axiomatic Orbit Of Major Planets.
351
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Fig: Axiomatic Orbit Of Minor Planets.




352
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                  Power House Of The Universe.

In order to make the derivation transparent the Sankhya
axiomatic method is used. Hence no external or empirical values
will be used. The process of dividing space by 2 keeps the
central point in the same location.




                     Fig: Centre Of Resonance
Sequentially dividing by two keeps the central point in the same
location where all the lines pass through and form a node of
density proportional to the number divisions made. The nodes
are cubic domains of permanent certainty whereas the
intermediate regions contain changing flux and acceleration
parameters. Numerical accuracy in this region is dependant on
secifying at least two related parameters.
 Hence, the numerical ratio of cubic space is ½3 or 1/8. If the
cubic values of all subsequent sequence of such divisions are
added up it will equal 1/7 as the spectral states, shown below

                          1 n
EP1                                 = 0.142857
                          23
                     n
The difference in value between the cubic unit and the next
expanded cubic form is 23 –13 =7..


                    1 n
                               23     1
EP2                 23
              n
                                          = 1.020408
353
                     23    1
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

Adding the sum of divisions to the difference due to expansion
and dividing by 7 gives the ratio of expansion from unit 1 to 2,
as the radiant rings of resonant states extending to infinity as RS
= 1.02040816The cyclic count as shown earlier is 10. Self-
similar expansion as derived earlier is 1+ x and the compression
is 1 – x. Hence the self similar ratio of an expansive interactive
potential is 102 / 101-x =101+x or 101/x . The value of the cube root
of 2 = k and 23 = k9 . Therefore the ratio of simultaneous
interaction 23 in the period k is k9-1 = k8 . The sequential rate is 7
or (k9 –1=7). The ratio of simultaneous expansion to sequential
expansion rate per cycle of 7 is:
                             1
                             x
EP3                     10
                                       = 0.933661
                 k 9 1. k 9       1
The ratio EP2 represents a centred or stationary state containing
rings of resonant counts and EP3 depicts the ratio of expansive
change to sequential change in the same cyclic interval of 7. The
comparative rate of change shown below in EP4 of these two
dynamic ratios of change in a stationary state defines the change
within a change or the accelerative mode of change but is
centred & static.

      1
      x
   10 .         1 n .             23     1
                                                         = 0.914988
EP4 k 8         23               1 n             3
           n                                 2       1
                                 23
                         n
The Sankhya definition of EP4 in Suthra 3 is the Purusha state.as
Kx = 0.91499 counts/cycle. It represents the combination of
Thaama, Raja and Sathwa states with the Lingaa Bhaava
interface in EP3 and the Abhimaan-Ahankaar crossover point as
354
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
EP2. All these phases remain as though in a stationary state of
coherent activity or a holographic state of frozen activity and is
described as the Andhathaamishraa or blackhole state of
unmanifest activity. The Purusha of value Kx is a fundamental
state where all activities come to a restful state of coherent
activity. The proof lies in the value of the Catalan, the sum of all
odd or non-synchronous states as follows:

       C AT                ( 1 ) j. ( 2 . j   1) 2       1 0.915977847
                   j
The simultaneous division of two as an endless power series
represents the resonant but static state summing up to a total of
1/7 in EP1. The cubic coherent state represents the equal rate of
activity along all three axis. It is a synchronised count rate
wherein the cubic count rate of C3 reduces to C because the
counts along the two axis remain in step. That is if ten people
clap individually ten counts are possible but if all ten clap
simultaneously, in lock step or in absolute synchrony only one
clap will be heard. In the same way if vibratory or oscillatory
interactive counts act exactly in phase along all three axis then
the count rate will be only the value along any one axis. But the
same rate will be counted in all three directions and represents a
simultaneous surface of activity or a spherical wave front of
vibrations. The point at which counts along two axis synchronise
is when the rate of self similar expansion reaches the maximum
C1+x = 5.1e1013 and the cyclic interval becomes a minimum ..
The cycle is a sum of changes that reach the original state after a
sequence of interactions. Its derivation and proof have been
given in earlier Suthras. In the very first gradient or ratio of
cyclic period difference in an interaction is 1 to 2 and the
deviation or the difference in displacement causing non
synchrony is as follows
              2                                      2
                            = 8.472135955                 = 8.472135955
                                                     3
 EP5                                                 x
          1   22       2
355
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The ratio EP5 is a simultaneous self similar ratio and as it’s a
cubic ratio of x it has the limiting property or damping force to
maintain an oscillatory state perpetually. Its numerical value as a
cyclic process will be C as counts per cycle: All numerical
values are given precisely as there is no uncertainty in Sankhya
logic
                     8.472135955                 . 8
EP6          C 10                2.965759669210
The count rate of C per cycle of ten counts represents the internal
rate of oscillations maintained perpetually as long as there is no
externalisation or radiation of internal activity counts. This is
ensured by two factors . As long the resonant division by 2 is not
disturbed the centred state remains. Next, even if the centring
action is disturbed, as long as the accelerative rate of change
does no exceed 1+x the ability to regain the original state is
ensured by the third order damping force or the x 3 factor that
opposes prolongation of internal cyclic period as x-x2 = x3. . C
equals the measured value of velocity of light minus a correction
for the velocity for the Milkyway Galaxy through space. As
explained earlier there is a Doppler shift due to Galactic velocity
and that correction is Fc = 1.08045 of a cyclic time which gives
the velocity of light as derived
                                          m
                    C. fc 2.997925. 108.
                                         sec
Just as 23 represented the resonant and centred cubic state C3
represents the same simultaneous internal activity state. Further
as shown earlier the sequential activity within a cycle of ten
counts is contained within , because the displacement is
proportional to x, the self similar ratio.           Hence any
simultaneous colliding or instant interaction between two such
states is C3*2 .= C6 . Not more than two states can act
simultaneously to equal C6 . The EP5 ratio of Kx being the
ultimate state of coherent activity then the ratio Kx / C 6 gives
the Moolaprakrithi or My the smallest cycle or the shortest
possible count per interaction.
356
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                         Kx                   . 51
               My                  1.344620224910
                             6
                         C

The ratio of the coherent resonant state in EP2 extends to infinity
as rings of resonance that remains in coherent state till disturbed
by any non synchronous activity. The proportion of counts in the
resonant spectrum well be EP2 less 1. Hence the value of
resonant counts in terms My in the Satwic region of the radiant
spectrum is
The astronomical value arrived at is in a potential state and only
a disruptive activity will trigger the coherent state into a
decaying resonant activity to regain the balance. As shown
earlier the My counts are equivalent to Plancks energy per
frequency constant in quantum physics. Hence EP8 is the
equivalent of the energy resident in the fundamental field of
space as a coherent unmanifest activity that has not become
radiant till
                     Kx                                      52
                                             = 3.334355 10
                     n
                1
                              23    1
EP8             23
           n
   m y.                                  1
                    23    1

disturbed. It is the state before the field appears in quantum
physics. The reason for the inability to detecting the basic field
in Physics is that there exists no experimental way of measuring
the potential or coherent state of dynamic activity. Unless motion
is detected instrumental confirmation is not possible as any
instrument detects only a change in its state. For a change in
potential to be detected the initiation of an accelerative motion or
force is needed to trigger the detecting instrument to change in
some proportion.
357
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The equivalent rate of energy or power is resident in the
Planckmass in a state of rest. In other words its mass and energy
are in the same state or the same numerical value. It is the
equivalent of entropy of a system at rest. But the scientific habit
of looking at mass and energy as different fundamental traits
hides this difference. Reviewing Mass is synchronised or
coherent vibrations that superposes the vibratory count along two
other axis to give the same count. Hence C2 dissappears from
the countable spectrum When not synchronised the C2 aspects
becomes a detectable factor with a time element The point at
which two vibratory counts synchronise perfectly is at C1+x
counts. For C cannot expand in a self-similar manner beyond
that value. The vanishing of a value is a real process of
synchronisation along two axis.
Planckmass and Plancktime value is shown below

                C.                     8
                   ( h ) = 2.176635 10   mass
                G

                 h. G                     44
                          = 5.390693 10        time
                      5
                  C
The maximum power or energy/time that can be generated is:

       C . . 2 . C5              52    1
          (h) C     = 3.628962 10 time   joule
       G          .
                 hG
EP9
Here the conceptual difference between Quantum physics and
Sankhya logic becomes at once evident. The axiomatic EP8
value is the same as the (after correcting for time) rest mass
energy of the Planckmass per Plancktime or the rate of power
that could be developed in the substratum. The enigma why there
are Planckian fluctuations in space is answered once it is clear
that space is a dynamic field of components that cannot be
detected unless it moves. The Mahad or Planck mass is a
358
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
dynamic perpetual self similar oscillator operating at exactly C
cycles per cycle (or second) and that equivalence to EP3 is
shown below. It will prove that interface between Thaama and
Raja or the Strong / Weak force interactive domain is the cause
of the planckmass to neutron (quark to hadron) transition in time
varying cycle that does not radiate any energy. Hence it is not
detectable till a violation of the coherent state occurs resulting in
many types interactive transitions. The equivalent axiomatic
Mahad Prakriti mass in Sankhya has already been derived above
as. Mps counts/cycle.
                     C          M ps. c
   ( Planckmass) .     0.932198         = 0.933661
                     7            7

                   1 n
                                   23   1
                       3
                   2
              n                             . Kx = 0.933661
                           3
                       2       1

                                    1
                                    x
                               10
      EP3 =                             = 0.933661
                               k 8. 7
EP3 is the combined ratios of the rates of interaction at the
interface . It takes place simultaneously within the cycle and
internally balances all the parameters through self similar
exchange. The centred Thaama or the static blackhole state as k8
and the resonant Raja shuttling state as 7 and the Sathwa
expansive state as 101+x interactact simultaneously to maintain
the balance between the Purusha blackhole Kx value and the
expanding Mahad Mps value by C.
If for any reason there is unbalance then Mps transforms into the
time cycle oriented resonant state by the factor RS. The period of
359
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
change RS-1 releases the count value of EP8. Its equivalence to
EP9 which is a ratio of Planck-mass.energy to Plancktime is a
unequivocal confirmation that the substratum of space fluctuates
in period RS-1 to regain its internal oscillatory balance.
                                     1
                                     3.           15
        ( Plancktime . ( RS 1 ) ) k = 1.300647 10
EP10
                                     1
                                     3.          15
       ( Sankhyatime. ( RS 1 ) ) k = 1.324821 10
It is further confirmed by an outstanding equivalence to the
nuclear Compton wavelength when expanding by k to twice the
cubic state, as shown in EP10.
The Prakrith Saptha or PM the Nuclear (Hadron) state is

                            3
                2. π         . Kx = 1.674423 10 27
EP11
              10. 3. c
PM as derived above provides further confirmation that the
Compton wavelength exists at this boundary. Since Physics uses
the energy concept to balance, whereas Sankhya uses ony the
delay in time cycle as in indicator of inertia, both methods will
be shown to produce the same results.
                        h
                            1.321347. 10 15
                         .
                       Pm C
                       1
                       3
               PM          .( k                       15
                                  1 ) = 1.322754 10
              ( Pd )
While the energy expression using Plancks constant hides the
actual physical status, the Sankhyan process shows the Pd is the
density of space in the expanded (due to loss of potential) but
360
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
still in a coherent state. The Compton wavelength commences
only beyond the boundarythe ratio 21/3 = 1.2599 –1=0.2599. That
is the difference (k - 1) is the place where the first resonant state
can exist when coherence is destroyed. It is an axiomatic fact.
Hence it needs no proof.
The above comparisons confirm at a glance the nature of the
Mahad or Planckmass function in space. Ep3 is an axiomatic
function at 1 count / cycle and yet the Mahad characteristics
equal the same ratio of interaction at C counts/cycle The
Purusha function Kx at EP2 again equals the same ratio. This is
an axiomatic or visual proof of the equivalance of these states at
different cyclic levels It shows the potential level difference in
three changed states without any detectable interactive reaction.
This method of proof at a glance is the only way to show the
identical nature of the three states of coherent potentials.
Because there is no equivalent equation in physics dealing with
simultaneous domains where only the potential is derived
axiomatically. In Figure 15 the relative relationship in physics is
displayed, based on count number. The count C has been
axiomatically derived and its cubic value is the normal stable
count / cycle in three dimensional space. If an interaction takes
place between two units in a cycle the count value rises to a
maximum of C6 . If the count C along each axis interacts with its
opposite axis then the six directions will also give C6 counts at
the interacting point in the centre. The maximum C6 counts do
not take place in one cycle but Kx is value of the maximum
delay or inertia or mass. The minimum or smallest fraction of
delay is My =Kx/C6 .Hence all interactive counts can be
presented as a product of My into interactive counts, in a
dimensionless way with Kx being the maximum and My the
minimum. If C is the count value of the self-similar, harmonic,
perpetual, fundamental, oscillator in elemental space populated
by a sea of identical components of whatever description, then in
terms of count there can be no greater value then Kx per cycle
and no smaller value than My per cycle. The counts of
interactions along any axis can be cubed to set the maximum
361
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
coherent count rate possible in that state. Similary the cube root
of the the same count establishes the stationery or static count
value and that gives maximum number of field points or
stationray elements that con exist along the that axis. Hence the
cubic count divided by the cube root count specifies the self
similar or scale invariant population of field points within the
cubic volume. The foregoing statement lays the foundation for
all physics or all the sciences. It applies to any scale as it is scale
invariant. Sankhya has shown the potential ladder as 10raised to
an index




362
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
              C6                       Kx



          Mps
                                         C5


                                            St


              C4
                                            PM

       Flux
                                                 Me

              C3                                      My

  Ne




                   Fig: Cosmic Power Structure
number in the most elegant manner, leaving the numerical
precision to be adjusted by dimensional correction if desired.
Hence the values are shown as equivalent to dimensional
physics.
The conversion of My or Kx to the mass value in physics can be
carried out by setting the velocity of light in physics to a seconf

363
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of fc=1.010845 cycle in Kg/metre/sec. The Planck’s constant h
is:[My C2 (4 π2 /7 )].

EP12      My. 4.927785 . 10 17       6.626 . 10 34 h

The interactive count value along any axis is C x C = C2 . If
similar counts along the two other axis take place within the
same cycle then the total count value = (C2 )3 = C6 / cycle.
Similarly if two cubic units of space interact the total count =
C6 / cycle. The total time taken for C interactions at the
minimum cyclic time of My will be My x C x EP1 (EP1 is the
sum of the total increment from its static value). Also the
increment on expanding by 2 units along each axis equals 8
mines 1= 7. Therefore the shortest time for C counts is:in fact
equal to Tp = Placktime (when corrected)
The smallest delay per cycle My times C will give the shortest
time period of ten counts that equals the second approximately.
                       c. My               44
            Tp=              = 5.696886 10             EP12
                          7
The Purusha blackhole state of Kx reduces to the Mahad value of
Mps (Planckmass) when its coherent and synchronised state on
all three axis is broken by C. The cyclic time taken extends from
My to Tp (EP12) as a stable centred and synchronised state in a
complete cycle of C counts has been reduced. In the previous
section the axiomatic derivation of numerous modes of
constructing the Mahad state was shown . Reducing the Mps
stable value as a ratio per cyclic time Tp gives the rate of change
of counts per cyclic time as St the dynamic stress in the
substratum. Since Kx was coherent, only after the break in
synchrony by C in time Tp, can it produce the rate of change per
time cycle as St. or the stress in the substrum:



                          Mps                     35
                  St              3.868244 . 10
364                        Tp

                  C3
                         4.037765 . 10 35
                  G1
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

EP13



The equivalence of St to the lower C3 / G1 as the metric
elasticity of space identified by Sakharov, Chandrashekar and
others gives support the qualities of the field in space.
                      C2                       35
                                   = 3.96654 10
EP14
               charge_ec. 2
St is the value of an electronvolt of change in mass energy units
as shown.
The next stable state reached after a loss of one more cycle of C
counts results in the the breaking down of the simultaneous state
to produce the synchronised count along two axis. So far the
interactions in the substratum was an internal simultaneous
exchang which did not propagate any counts outside its
boundary of action. Here the comencement is signaled by a
distance parameter as Lp.

                 Lp     c. Tp 1.68956. 10 35
EP15                       M ps
                Flux                 1.304301. 1027
                           Tp. c
The term Lp is the equivalent of a length if C is specified in
metres wavelength / second and is equal to the Plancklength. The
stress in the substratum of space is C times Flux EP15. That
count rate of the flux per cycle is due to the self-similar nature of
an expansive interaction in a contained field of space. This value
is critical and must be interpreted correctly. When oscillatory
wave counts are identical along two axis the density rises but the
counts reduce to that of one axis. If counts along x and y axis
differ the product of both values can be counted as events. But if
365
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
they synchronise perfectly then the coun t reduces to that on any
one axis but the count become rings or cicles of counts. The
Lissajou figures below show the coherent ring when n1 n2 are
equal or reflect simultaneous activity but
             n1      50           n2   50
                                                    n1      50        n2   52

             1                                      1



     x                                      x
         j                                      j




             1                                      1
                 1        y             1               1        y          1
                              j                                   j

              Fig: Lissajou Figures Show Coherence
when there are more than one count difference the coherent
pattern breaks up and increases the interactive count. . In the
same way when the count of C is identical along all three axis
the the C3 count falls into step and the value of counts reduce to
C thereby hiding C 2 as a factor that increases the density and
displays mass characteristics. Coherence produces spherical or
circilar time period functions or rings of simultaneous
interactions and hides the true numbers involved.
When interactions take place along one axis from opposite ends
the total value is C2 . But the self similar internal characteristics
allows simultaneous exchanges between compressive and
expansive states to vary the proportions according to the Guna
laws explained in the relevant sections.. The compressive value
can raise the count value to a maximum of C1+x while reducing
the expansive value to a minimum of C 1-x at the same time.
Hence the smallest interval beyond which counts along two axis
can act simultaneously, like the Lissajou patterns with equal
counts, is 1/C1+x Hence till the point of reaching the synchronised
state the flexbilty or slackness or elasticity is displayed but when
366
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the differen is nil the C1+x raises as the square or cube depending
on two or three axis synchrony. Hence at the Flux of value of
(C1+x)2 the density of interactive counts increases suddenly to
create addition mass characteristics.
The Thaama state represents the quark domain in particle
physics. It is the strong force domain in asymptotic freedom. The
Raja domain is the weak force region. The EP3 ratio is the
equivalent coupling constant that varies with potential change,
enabling transitions in the strong-hadronic / weak - interface.
The Sathwa domain is the electromagnetic region. The EP2 ratio
is the equivalent of the coupling constant enabling transitions
from radiant-photon-electromagnetic/weak-leptonic interface.
Unlike in physics the Sankhya spectrum is a continuous state of
transitions that are coupled by the EP3 and EP2 ratios that
demarcate a phase change of two axis and three axis synchrony
when energy to mass transition takes place. The above is a brief
outline of the parallel transport in particle physics and can be
justified perfectly by a few conceptual changes. However, the
Sanlkhya logic being logically superior, it explains the power
generation process in the substratum perfectly and the following
will cover the further sequences in the Sankhya process
The oscillatory state in the substratum of space is kept in a
coherent and synchronised state by the internal exchange of
oscillatory counts between the Purusha and Mahad Prakriti’s
Linga potential variation balanced simultaneously by the
Mahad.Prakriti’s and Prakriti.sapta form or Bhava variations as a
totally internal count transfer, represented by the EP1 to EP4
type of mechanism.
In the Fig. ‘Ladder of Phenomenon’ the order of logical flow of
phenomenon is shown.to highlight mathematical rigour of the
derivation of each state (again) as a sequence of steps. The
comparative equivalence can be seen at a glance. Sankhya
conceptual logic shows that the Universe follows an extremely
orderly process. The ladder of phenomenal action starting from 1
unit that indicates a relatively stable or equal state of activity
rises to its axiomatic axiom of C6 value. The basic principle of
367
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
self similarity in action or Swabhava mode creates stress
according to Suthra 55 The same principle derives the
fundamental state of stable action. As all the parameters shown
above have already been derived in earlier sections it will be
used to explain the process of achieving perfect balance in the
entire scale of phenomenon.

          C6 = Kx / My


                  C5 = Mps / My7rs


                           C4=Stress /My


                                  C3 = PM Px/My


            C2 = Ne / My


                     C =Tp 7/ My


           1 = (Lp(x+x)2)3 )( MU) / My


               Fig: The Ladder Of Phenomenon.
The maximum interactive count value of the Universe is MU.and
the corresponding minimum is My. The MU/My ratio must
always equal the ratio of astandard cyclic cubic space expresses
as an axiomatic value to its changing cubic space within the
same cycle. The first or primary interaction when cyclic time and
incremental space are equal is 1+x = 1/x. The interactive
increment rate and time cycle at resonance is (1+x)/2 and 1/2x.

368
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Therefore the displacement will be its product just as Lp = C Tp.
(that is rate of displacement into time =total displacement.)


       1    x. 1 3
                   = 0.2803792486 ( C. Tp ) 3 = 4.823036270410 105
           2 x. 2


   1      x. 1 3
        2 x. 2                       MU
                 = 5.813334855310103     = 5.813626619110103
         .
      ( C Tp ) 3                     M y


The identical equivalence can be seen in the two ratios.
Moreover an extraordinary proof comes by way of confirming
the frequency (cps) of the socalled Lamb shift at the fundamental
level as
                                            c                          . 9
             LAMBSHIFTIN                                    1.057767179310
                                                        3
                                                    2
                                       Ne. c
                                        3
                                       c . my

                                                c                                . 6
       LAMBSHIFTOUT                                                   4.004501934310
                                                                  3
                                                            2 2
                                      Ne. c . 10
                                              .
                                     c . my 2 π
                                      3


Another proof is given by comparing the sum of all the
interactions in the Universe at any instant or period Tp to the
maximum number of interactions in a cycle.as:


                            tp
                                       = 3.987820437 10 43
                                 1 n
                                 8
                        n
369
                        c. my = 3.9878204333 10 43
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.



Again the exact equivalence gives startling proof of the perfect
logic Sankhya has used in understanding phenomenon. The Lp is
the equivalent of the Planck length in Quantum theory and My is
the mass value of the Plancks energy constant ‘h’. Hence the
source value of 1 is perfectly justified. The rest of the
incremental steps. In the potential as C to C6 are equated to
stable states whose derivations have been shown earlier.
Reiterating the states, Lp is the smallest dispalcement along any
axis and Tp is the smallest fraction of a cyclic time.
       Ne . C                        2. π
                                            2
              = 0.8056819919                    = 0.8056819919
       PM. Px                         7

The Vikrithi state Ne is the flux of interactive counts
transmigrating constantly at rate C to keep the balance.mThe
equivalence shows the ratio of incremental displacements to
cyclic or angular changes in position in the coherent state of
Prakrithi as PM the nuclear or Hadronic state. Px is the super-
positioning density due to the interactions taking place in the
same location or the coherent state. The (PM Px)/My = (C3) or
the (PM*Px)/Kx = C3 state is a stable and isolated interactive
self-similar domain that does not radiate or exchange counts. For
the maximum Kx and minimum My keep it at consant C3, the
real description of orthogonal space that is in a dynamic and
holographic state. This is the Kaivalya description in Suthra 68
that states that the stress has diminished to such a fine level that
space remains in totally synchronised oscillation at an axiomatic
rate of C But because C3 is in a coherent state the detectable
count rate will be only C along any axis as the other two axis are
in total and absolute synchrony In this state C2 counts will not
be detectable and therefore would seem to vanish. Recall the
simultaneous clap episode or the Lissajou figures.

370
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
It has been shown in formula ??? that when the interval between
any axis is less than 1/C1+x the two behave or act together or
simultaneously. Therefore any disturbance interval between any
two axis exceeds 1/C1+x the coherent state is broken down and
the transmigration of stresses take place to initiate a variety of
phenomenon as shown in EP1 onwards. Though only one reason
has been shown there numerous other factors that also contribute
to this coherent state breakdown phenomenon. For instance the
nuclear state of PM though not detectable when submerged in
the C3 coherent state , becomes detectable with certain
characteristics. The detectable radius in physics is Rp and the
Compton wavelength as shown in Ep10. The axiomatic
confirmation is as follows:

                                                 2
 k       1                         (k       1)
             = 5.089059400610 15                     = 1.322753662410 15
     1   x                              1   x
 c                                  c

The factor (k-1) is relative radial expansion when expanding
twice cubically. The radial value is still depicts the coheent
boundary. When coherence breaks then (k-1) that was
synchronised braeks into its time dependant value of (k-1)2
When the stress in the substratum rises sudenly due to any type
of triggered or impulsive disturbance as derived in Suthra 37 the
reactive changes take place simultaneously At the basic cycle
level the cyclic count of 10 rises as 102 at the nodal position at ½
displacement period in the self similar oscillatory rate. Hence the
½ nodal position is raided instantly or the My interval. The C3
state too interacts to raise it to the maximum C6 simultaneously.
The Mahad Vikrithi or the first harmonic of the Prakrithi or (the
nuclear hadron) the Electron is derived by three independent
modes that ensures its existence for a brief period in the same
location. EP17 at Kx displays the centred mass value of the
Electron expanding in period k. EP 17 shows a complex high

371
            Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
            2
    1 ( 10 ) .
                 k. Kx = 9.094087632 10 31
    2


            2    . C1 x 7.        1 n.
 1                                       my = 9.0924402968 10 31
                                  3
EP16 5                           2
                             n
                 C3 . k 1 . n . .         2
                                           . My = 9.0953333997 10 31
n       2                   2 A 2
                                n
                 Px    7

density or simultaneous exchange phenomenon that involves
many parameters. It has been dealt with in EP???. But taking
the superpositioning value of C1-x (the coupling constant) as an
instantaneous interaction produces a reaction of C 1+x as the
compression value in the hiden C2 regime in the coherent C3
value that can be deteted only as C . Hence if C 1-x is raised 7
times as (23 –1 = 7) due to sudden triggering then C1+x too must
react instantly by raising it 7 times too, which leads to the Planck
density Dp shown in EP ???. Therefore every time a Vikrithi as
an electron is produced a Mahad Mps as planckmass is also
produced These are shown in EP???. Therefore Sankhya
establishes through Suthra 62 in very clear terms that nothing is
produced bound or released as substantial particles but that the
vibratory stress of value My transmigrate in various
simultaneous lots to produce the socalled objects that are
detected.
So the unequivocal conclusion that must be drawn from the
above mathematics that the Mahad Vikrithi Me as electron and
Mahad Prakrithi Mps as planckmass are formed and decayed in
its respective cyclic interval. Both are the two simultaneous sides
of the same coin metaphorically speaking. What remains
constantly in the substratum are the Prakrith Saptha or the
Neutron undetectable configuration at the central Linga/Bhava or
Strong/weak interface balanced by the Vikrithi Saptha as the
Neutrino at the Abhiman / Ahankar or the lepton / photon
372
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
electromagnetic crossover point. But in the coherent state in
space its presence cannot be detected not because it is not
dynamically oscillating but because in an absolute coherent state
all three axis synchronise so perfectly that a spinning sherical
shell does not emit any wave or radiations at all. Suthra 30
defines this state as the fundamental position to which a third
order damping constraint drives vibrations into its restful state.
The Power House is perpetually active ever ready to take the
load on instant demand. Understanding this sequence of actions
can enable the extraction of undreamed of levels of power by
merely triggering space with a probe of the smallest power but in
the shortet time The road to that is ingenuity which again is
ensured by the same mechanism enacted in the human mind by
the Siddhi process of Suthras 4,5 and 6. The axiomatic
mathematical proof shown every where poves that Sankhya is
truly inimtable and especially when it is realised that not a
single, repeat not a single empirical input has gone into this
theory.




373
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
          Astrology, Ayurveda, Parapsychology are
                       Axiomatic

Space is dynamic and is in perpetual oscillation as proved in
Suthras 67 and 68. The Vikrithi saptha state prior to the
acceleration of a Vrithi or photon is in a resonant interactive
state of C cps. The coherent potential state at the Linga / Bhava
interface between the Thaama and Raja regions is balanced
exactly by C number of Ne Vikrithis or Neutrinos that can
transmigrate across the entire Raja Abhiman / Ahankar
spectrum.




                                                       AP1.




The transmigration rate of both the Mahad Vikrithi and saptha or
the Electron Me and Neutrino Ne are changed by a correspondin
interactive rate due to alterred stress transmigration rates in the
substratum. The interactive rates change whenever the
synchronous balance is upset. The Me and Ne change here are
time bound or sequential. It certainly affects the phase
relationship of both Me and Ne states but do not constitute a
current as it is not a 7-at-a-time Ne rate, shown below:




                                              AP2



374
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

The interactive rate change of 3 levels have reversed (AP1) the
Ne transmigration rate but as it does not exceed 7 Ne rate ( in
AP2 --it is less than unity) in the transmigration rate, it cannot be
detected . Nevertheless the PM/Me interface balance at the Linga
/Bhave region (The weak EMG region in Physics) must respond
by changing the phase of synchronisation. Particularly in genetic
cells the innermost coupling boundaries will be most affected as
the stress of confinement or bonding is greatest at that level.
Subtle time oriented changes are initiated but the cause for which
may not be evident. At the Abhiman / Ahankar interface the Ne
drift in large numbers will create minor shift in potentials that if
sustained will create observable changes. This is the
Parapsychology interface for a whole range of ESP, Dream and
Aura dependant phenomenon occurrances.
Unless such changes exceed the rate of seven Nes
simultaneously no radiant or detectable phenomenon is set in
motion. The planck constant is the equivalent of 7 simultaneous
Ne changes, when the boundary of the second harmonic or the 8th
unit level is exceeded. Such a rate is the largest possible change
due to an interaction and will continue to transmigrate till the
potential is reduced at 1017 units distance or number of
wavelengths for at each node a moolaprakrithi is absorbed to
equalise the potential. Though mathematical logic has been
shown at the simplest but relevant level , the mathematical
expressions are complex as the number of simultaneous
parameters involved are many. In Ayurveda and Astrology the
critical phase relationship in a cycle is identified as sectors of 10
or twelve divisions within which the nature of the interactive
events calssified through the permutations & combinations of the
three Guna modes of interaction.
While radiation of energy needs 7 Nes to be accelerated at the
same instant or simultaneously, below that, any number of Ne’s
may transmigrate due to changing stresses without giving any
clue to the underlying interactive process. Such tunneling
activity create changes in phase in synchronised states that alter
375
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the potential. Dynamic and flexible molecular / cellular / genetic
structures would undergo a twisting or unwinding stresses
(without observablee movements) through small angles that
would tend to upset a balanced state. Living organisms would
sense the change and react. Suthra 53 & 54 define the organic
spectrum. These interactions are complex in nature and vary in
time. Numerical evaluation of these changes can be made by
iteratively to list the algebraic sum of xn =1. The interactive
stress graph shown in fig. Stress Count Density below. Shows
the planckian type of superpositioning of potential in internal
timelike distribution as in blackbody radiation.




                    fig. Stress Count Density
 The PM , Me and Ne states are synchronous and phase related.
Hence changes in stress transmigration counts will effect its state
that would correspond to changes in magnetic moment or
gyromagnetic ratios besides affecting bonding or coupling values
and interactive cross-sections. In the substratum these factors are
standard ratios though it changes to complex forms in aggregated
or compounded states. These are shown below.


376
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




The ratios are PMm for the Prakrithi saptha or Proton & Pnm for
the Neutron spectrum. Similarly Mem for the electron & Nem
for the neutriono Vikrithi saptha spectrum. Vr for the radiating
Vrithi or Photon specrum, completes the change ratios along the
entire Raja region covering both the Linga/Bhava and
Abhiman/Ahankar interfaces. The organic spectrum is governed
by a flexible Bhava disposition that retains the Linga coherent
state. The angular division for a coherent state must have a ratio
of ½ or 30 degrees. Axiomatically then a coherent structure with
six or twelve divisions in a cycle would be required. Hence
Carbon chemistry forms the base of organic states. Therefore
astral stress transmigration that distort or twist this angular or
hexagonal form only need to be studied. Astrological and
Ayurvedic divisions are based on 12 sectors with 10 as the
summation total following Sankhyan guna principle of self
similar interactions. Hence 120 divisions are used to empirically
relate the twist due to stresses caused by planetary transits or
configurations. The vernier effect of 10-1=9 gives the degree of
overlap of adjacent angular dispositions. Hence Saturn’s 30 yr
cycle gives a repetitive confirmation of 3 or 4 observations
whereas Uranus’s 84 yr cycle does not offer even one cycle to
derive meaningful interpretations. Also the degree of influence is
less then a thousandth of the lunar/solar reference levels and
empirical observations must be collated over long a period of at
least 300 yrs to enable predictability.

377
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
As an illustrative example the closest orbits of Jupiter and Saturn
cause a variation in gravitational acceleration on the earth of
about 1/30 and 1/850 respectively. The Ne has the lowest ratio
of turning moment and its rate of transmigration would be
affected by such changes in some proportion. Though it may be
small and undetectable as photons the duration over which such
shift in potential exist are over realtively long periods. While the
Vrithi or photon is the detectable messenger of communication ,
the hidden Ne streams are the communicators-in-plenty below
that level. Just as Solar neutrino Ne streams cause visible and
detectable differences through its interactions, the subtler
planetary streams influence potential states which in turn affects
atomic and molecular cell structures by the minute but consistent
stress levels.. The changes are calculated as relative shifts in
orientation that effect the coherent state, which is the normal
one for the organism concerned.
The coherent divisions from the Andhathaamisra regions gave 28
orders of counts that remained stable numerically. The 12 sector
(30 deg.) gave the reference level for characteristics that added
or subtractacted from the three guna states and the transitions by
the linga/bhava and the abhiman/ahankar polarisation factor. The
28 levels of change in descending order was characterised by
the Nakshatra nomenclature in the Atharvaveda. Starting from
the zero level ecliptic crossing called Punarvasu, when the
organic form remained in its most felexible and balanced state,
the list of 28 positions and its principle influence on the twelve
sectors ware identified in the Nakshatradevatyam passages in the
Atharvaveda.
It also laid the ratio of change by which the zero position of the
ecliptic changed due to the precession of the equinoxes in about
25760 years The original classification of genetic characteristics
affected by the stress transmigration patterns were defined in the
28 nakshatra qualities But as indicated in the Appendix 4: ‘Age
of the Vedas’, the glacial melt causeing a calamitous flood
produced a reserructed version of the original Vedic oral
creations by the survivors, which has led to misinterpreting the
378
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
correct meaning. Of the 28 nakshatra positions , Abhijit’s
location (180 degrees from Punarvasu) along the ecliptic has
now apparently disappeared due to the inclination of the earth’s
axis, thus making it difficult to accomodate its angular division
in the current interpretive procedures. Hence post glacial
astrology refers to only 27 nakshata positions, with the result the
original interpretative meanings have drifted over to the adjacent
bhavas or sectors. Astrological interpretation indicate trends of
change in the genetic behaviour that may or may not aid the
individual.
 Ayurveda was based on the principle that stresses affected the
characteristics of the biological field of the holographic body of
all organic entities by influencing the combinatorial variations in
the complex thaama, raja and sathwa state of balance. The
classification of Vatha, Pithha and Khapha as being synonymous
with sathwa, raja and thaama states was diagnosed through the
vibratory state of the body. The degree of stress was inferred
from the state of the pulse, which being the output of an
interactive organic system, had to follow the same triad of guna
laws. The state of the pulse was inferred by contact and 3
positions with 3 possible variations in each of them led to 108
variants that were classified through empirical observation. The
process could be likened to a technician observing waveforms on
an oscilloscope. The balance of the three guna states in the body
was interpretted in terms of the total energy in the body and not
merely the externally observable conditions.
The guna principle of self similar interactions in the
simultaneous mode, enabled the detection for an excess or lack
of energy stored in the thaamasic or sathwic states as khapha or
vatha characteristics, though the observable conditions of the
body remained normal. The inference of such states through the
variations in the pulse gave an early warning of impending
disorders. While body temperature was an observable, the
accummulation or depletion of energy as latent heat of cellular
combinations did not reflect it as temperature variations. The
biological field responded to fine stresses levels. Detecting such
379
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
minute changes depended on observing changes from the normal
state. The stresses, aided by astral positions, either compounded
or mitigated the severity of the disorder. Hence Ayurvedic
principles forewarned the individual to take corrective measures
long before a disasterous breakdown in health took place. It
applied to all forms of life, with appropriate variations in the
mode of observation and detection of states of disorder for there
was only one guna law for all interactive processes.




380
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

                      The Selfcharging Battery System

When a current is started in a circuit two actions can be
identified. In a battery the electric charge resident in the cell
structure of the plates immersed in an electrolyte, is assumed to
be static as long as the terminals are not connected. The internal
polarisation of the cells are kept in balance by an interactive
oscillatory activity where the nett current is extremely small. The
battery will run down eventually and is termed as leakage. On
being connected across the two terminals the charge
transmigrates along the connection as an interacting wave with
unequal forward and backward displacements.
Analysing the very first interaction that initiates the
transmigration of a charge at a rate C, due to the difference in the
potential between the two terminals, the rate rises to C1+x through
self similar interaction. The interval is its reciprocal where the
difference between two interactions dissapear and the discrete or
quantum field becomes a continuous field.
The rise of C1+x can be considered as an incremental ratio of C to
Cx . It is instantaneous (because of 1/ C1+x ) and must be
expressed as a log ratio as shown.

      F1        C                     F2                Cx
      log             = 3.236068                  log            =2
                Cx                                      1
                                                        C    x
Therefore an electric current will be due to the incremental value
plus the normal resonant rate of C as :
                                      x
                log
                      C
                             log
                                     C
                                              1
                                                                       F3
                       x            1 x                               18
                      C            C
           C                                      = 8.79573 10
                                              1                  F4
                                  x
                C                C
          log              log            1
                 x              1 x
      C         C              C              . 2 = 1.607841 10 19
381
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The averaged reciprocal of the above figure is the measured
value of a current in coloumbs. This is the interactive logic the
battery too follows in transmigrating a current.
When the first parameter in F1 starts, the immediate reaction F2,
(within a cycle), opposes F1 and its logarithmic difference gets
added to the rate C as long as the potential difference across the
conductor exists. The value F4 constitutes one ampere per
second if one volt transmigrates across one ohm resistance.
The motive force for the current is in the Purusha or blackhole
domain in space, identified earlier. Repeating the formula for
convenience as F5 shows it is the winding numbers .
                    Mps               17
F5                       = 6.282665 10
                     .
                   PM Px
The F5 value is the constant source of power in the substratum.
If the rate of F3 synchronises into resonance with F5 the
oscillatory state can be perpetually maintained. The rate of
oscillation to maintain its internal charge is nn = 9.939535 and to
expand the radial k must be raised by nn, but k nn = nn . This
factor is unusual for it synchronises displacement and cyclic time
to maintain resonance wth the reciprocal value of charge.
                   M ps. nn              18
F6                          = 6.244677 10
                   PM. Px

                               x    1 2
              C               C
          log       1   log
               x             1 x
              C             C
      C                                 . c . x = 536.48355
                   PM. Px                cx
F7                 Mps. nn

The expansion rate of C1-x times the cyclic displacement ratio x
gives 536.48 cycles per second if C is the frequency at a metre
wavelength in 1.010845 secs. If the battery current is switched
on and off sharply, in the circuit configuration shown below, the
382
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
batteries remain charged despite having a load that consumes
considerable power. The battery acts as a large capacitor with a
very small resistance, that generates a large pulsing current. The
efficiency of transformation of the pulsing current is directly
proportional to the sharpness of the switching off process.




              Fig: The Selfcharging Battery System.
The green device represents the pulse transformer and the red
unit the rotary high amperage sharp cut off switch operating at
536 cps. The 4 numbers 12 volt batteries are cyclically switched
into a series connection of 24 volts while the remaining two
remain in parallel to maintain 12 volts. In the next cycle the
series parallel state is changed over . In effect the series 24 volt
charges the 12 volt parallel units within 1/536 of a cycle and
383
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
immediately change over        to discharge across the other
configuration. At resonance the batteries act as mere capacitors
while the space field around the counductors act is inductive
devices to provide the pulsing current. The transforming ratio of
the secondary can be designed to match the load plus losses of
the circuit thus imposing no power-load on the batteries.
Experimental models have been test run successfully.
Interesting equations confirming the effect described above are
given below.
      M ps             35                              35
           = 3.86824410        C3. G = 3.86824410
       tp
                                                  F8
                                             2
       C2                         M ps                      35
                          35                     = 3.86824410
               = 3.88188210
                               PM. P x. rs
      e c. 2

The C3 G parameter is the maximum stress per cycle in space
and as shown earlier it is resident in the Purusha state as a
coherent ensemble of vibratory stress not in motion. Mps the
equivalent Planckmass pulsed in plancktime tp produces the
large stress value of ST. The formulation Mps/tp can be seen as
the result of applying the impulse momentum theorem in
Physics. The confirmation is shown as ec the value of charge of
one electron volt per second. The energy value of C5 G
represents the maximum rate of radiation of energy per second .



  F9




384
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Overunity generation of power is only possible if the reaction
time to initiate the next cycle is eliminated. Similarly perpetual
oscillation can be possible if the time cycle to transfer the
reactive output before the start of the next cycle is eliminated.
The delay leads to the necessity of increasing the rate of transfer
of the force needed to keep the system operating. A time lag
keeps the initiating cycle following the sequence of action
whereas it shound be ahead. The conditions needed to sustain
perpetual action or produce incremental power can be met only
by using the systems internal energy to shortcicuit cyclic time
delay. Feeding forward needs a system of control that can act
faster than the state of the system that is in operation. Such a
requirement needs additional power. Even if the power is
available from the system itself it must be able transfer it ahead
of the time to act. Hence a means to draw from a systems own
internal energy is necessary for overunity or perputual motion.
A pendulum or swing is kept in perpetual motion by changing
the state of the driving force or momentum in time. A child on a
swing can keep the oscillations going continuously if it moves its
body in time to initiate the next cycle at an accelerated level. A
pendulum clock does the same thing by triggering at the right
moment but with an additional energy input to overcme the loss
due to resistance. An internal combustion engine varies output
with the same fuel input if the ignition system is advanced or
retarded thereby proving the point of timing conditioning output
for the same input.
The identification of a level of self or internal energy in a system
is a prerequisite to sustainng overunity states. Internal energy
states act as reservoir not only to provide the force but also
initiate action ahead of the cyclic interval to sustain incremental
states. Its depletion can be replenished at another part of the
cycle provided incremental production is in operation. When a
balloon is compressed from all sides simultaneously the rise in
pressure is dissipated and the the entire quantum of rise in
pressure can be utilised from the moment of reversing the
process. If it is not simultaneous then the pressure does not rise
385
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
to the maximum as it evens it out by displacement to other
portions of the balloon that is not compressed. The rise is
internal and can transfer to any region of the surface in the same
time period..




           Fig: Sequential Interaction Time-Periods.




                Fig:. Simultaneous Interactions.
386
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




          Fig: The Mahad Prakrithi/Vikrithi Exchange.
This conceptual diagrammatic 3D plot as a surface contour
change gives an idea of the Sankhyan concept of simultaneous
exchange between the Mahad Prakrithi or Planck mass density
rise in planck time and the Mahad Vikrithi or Electron flux
density rise in its own cyclic time. The actual change as a 3
dimensional stress transformation in the substratum of space will
not be detectable unless it decays as an interaction. The Mahad
Vikrithi Me or Electron is triggered into existence as an
avalanche of a vorticular states by the Mahad Prakrithi Mps
reaction in time cycle tp. The nature of power or energy
developed in the shortest possible time is highly indicative of the
387
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
impulsive or triggering interaction . Mps / tp = St, the
maximum stress in the substratum, therefore it meant the
maximum rate of energy radiation. It's power is proportional to
C3 G = 3.8 E+35 cpc.




           : The Stress Cancellation In Simultaneity.

The perpetual ocillations in space in a symmetric and coherent
form cannot be detected as there is no change in the count rate,
which is always C. But the stress transmigrate through self
similar proportionality from one region to another alternately
thus maintaining the state of unmanifest oscillation. The rise and
fall or the height and depth are consistently matched and on the
introduction of an upsetting or hindering 'triggering-interaction'
the coherent potential breaks the synchronous and symmetric
388
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
phase relationship to set in motion a displacement wave of
varying stresses that transmigrate across the sea of components
which form the substratum of space. The break in coherence
initiates a ‘spin’ that has a quadrupole cyclic action. When in a
quiescent and coherent state it is a simultaneous dipole
oscillation that cannot be detected except for a 90 deg phase-
shift. Electromagetic phenomenon overides this phase shift and
cannot be detected.




389
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
        Appendix 1: Sankhya Translations Compared

     Taking only the very first Suthra as the starting point for this
comparative study the translations of the various authors show a
certain hesitation in coming to a committed meaning of this
verse. In a system of presentation that is terse and precise the
student has no option but to assume and search for a profound
and leading meaning in the very first Suthra, especially when a
number of translators have been unable to see a justifiable reason
for the differences in its interpretations. Also there is enough
evidence from other Sanskrit Vedic treatises that the very first
set of verses indicate the trend of contents of the ensuing subject
matter. Since Sankhya pre-dates all other works (acknowledged
by the majority of translators) it should be decoded rather than
translated by referring to other works. There is a definite clue in
Suthra 69 that it is a secret doctrine meaning that it should not be
dealt with in a standard way. Moreover there is direct evidence
from the Sankhya Karika itself that the meditative or holistic
thinking process should be followed in interpreting the Suthras,
for any language is built up by a structured logic based on human
experience and is conditioned by the environment and period in
which it is developed. Since it is difficult to pin down with
absolute certainty the meaning of key words that may have
changed with the passage of time, holistic imaging leading to
three dimensional visualisation of complex phenomenon is the
next closest means to interpreting reality, correctly. As a case to
point, almost all the major epics like the Mahabharata and
Ramanya are presentations of complex and profound scientific
concepts through dramatic enactment. It is a substitute for a
modern video presentation. Maharishi Kapila has specially dealt
with the process of verifying the correctness of information
through a number of Suthras that teaches the student to use
holistic imagery through meditation. The proof of the previous
statement lies in the current explosion in graphic techniques as a
means of presenting complex information visually to enhance
understanding. It confirms the well known cliché that a picture is
390
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
worth a thousand words and meditation amplifies it a millionfold
by making it a dynamic real time process. It is also the reason
that all important religious and philosophical principles are set
out in the form of parables, stories or mythical constructs.
     Many translators have given this special work a derogatory
meaning by describing it as being pedantic, dogmatic, repetitive
etc. The main reason, giving rise to such an impression, is that
the intrinsic meaning of specific words remain precisely the
same throughout because they are HOLISTIC picture-definitions
of compact, condensed ideas and principles. A reader who lacks
a knowledge of meditative techniques, gets the feeling of it being
pedantic mainly because of his inability to understand the true
import of the verse. In the write-up below, the very first verse is
presented as a decoded sentence so that the divergence in the
meanings given by several translators can be readily seen.
                            Suthra 1.
The holistic meaning of the words are given here. See the
Sanskrit lexicon in appendix L specially developed to make this
treatise understandable. The implied meanings of each word has
been verified by using statistical techniques.

du:khatrayaabhighaataajjijnaasaa
Stress- triple- interaction- investigations
tadabhighaatakey         hetau ,
Such -interactive-modes exist
drishtey           sa’apaarthaa
detection of such would have been meaningless
chennAikaanthaathyanthatho’abhaavaath
were it not for the synchronised-perpetual-dynamic
   unmanifest state.

Meaning:




391
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Investigating the triad of interactive stresses confirms that
such interactive modes of stresses exist but it would not have
been detectable, had it not been for the existence of the
synchronised - perpetual - dynamic - unmanifest state of
existence (of the substratum).
                     Gaudapada's version:

Transliterated into English by H. T. Colebrooke:

The first Suthra is interpreted by Gaudapada as follows:

"This inquiry is into the means of precluding the three sorts
of pain; for pain is embarrassment: nor is the inquiry
superfluous because obvious means of alleviation exist, for
absolute and final relief is not thereby accomplished."

From the above exposition, the key elements of Gaudapada’s
subsequent commentary and elucidation are “ embarrassment
due to the three sorts of pain” ; classification of the three types of
pain as “adhyatmika or natural, adhibhautika or extrinsic and
adhidaivika or superhuman” , “the means of precluding them”, “
the superfluous nature of this exercise” and its uselessness as it is
“not absolute, final , certain and permanent”

Summarising his subsequent commentary on this Suthra
consequent to the interpretation given above: It classifies the
three types of pain and the medical modes of alleviating them
but it is concluded that as these means are not final, other
permanent means are to be inquired into, implying the existence
of an esoteric method to cure such pains and sufferings. From the
above it became amply clear that the first Suthra dealt with pain
and suffering.

Observation:


392
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Gaudapada's version predates the other translations and has
unfortunately influenced later authors to take up his slant. While
one can forgive his interpretation as the state of science was still
in its nascent stage then, subsequent authors could well have had
the courage to decode the real meaning and the perspicacity to
factually relate it to the trends in scientific knowledge
prevailing in their time. His conclusion is that it relates to human
physical suffering and fails to see any connection to nature and
phenomenon. It is surprising that this conclusion has been
presented, for in his translation of the second Suthra, he refers to
discriminative knowledge of manifest and unmanifest principles
and the soul. His commentary on the third suthra is even more
explicit about nature and its mathematical structure but no effort
had been made to translate the first suthra from this level nor had
the meaning of 'abhigatha' been examined critically in
conjunction with 'chenna'. The 68th Suthra (effectively the last)
gives a clear indication of the nature of the statements by
repeating the key words, but this sense has not been assimilated
contextually into the first Suthra. The clear opening trend of
sankhya as an investigation into the nature of the substratum of
space has been completely missed and the entire set of 68 verses
turned into disparately connected explanation trying to justify the
prevailing philosophical thoughts of his period. The importance
of "Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-abhavath" as a key phrase has not
been recognised by him nor has he seen the profound meaning it
gives on extending it to the 68th. Suthra . The term du:kha has
been misinterpreted despite its descriptive term “ traya” that is
evidently connected with the triguna principles. Such a deviation
in the very first Suthra underscores the error in not perceiving
Sankhya as a pre-glacial creation as hypothesised by Lokmanya
Tilak (see appendix G)
                  2. H. H. Wilson’s comments:
He states that the first verse proposes the subject of the work and
also of the system it belonged to namely the Hindus. They
sought exemption from repeated births as life was a state of pain
and suffering, bondage and evil, and escape from which was
393
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
devoutly to be wished. He also refers to the different
interpretation given by Lassen to the two important terms
“abhigatha” and “chenna” and after a lengthy analysis, takes
exception to it on the grounds of its implied meaning deviating
grossly from that of Gaudapada and Colebrooke.

Observation:

He expresses views almost identical to Gaudapada and the
supportive Colebrooke commentary but sees vaguely the
possibilities of an esoteric scientific logic being expressed to
explain the soul etc. The second and third Suthras are dealt with
on Gaudapada's lead but he seems oblivious to the inconsistency
in the run of logic and subject matter. The importance of the
"Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-abhavath" as a key phrase is not
recognised by him.
                        3. Lassen's version:
In his commentary in Latin, he has been the only person among
all other translators, to raise the doubt that the real meaning of
the term "chenna" leads to the conclusion that the final word
could be "abhavat" but seems unable to alter the rest of the
structure to make this change meaningful. He further deduces the
meaning of 'abhigatha' as 'impetus' but uses 'removal' for the
same word later, thereby acknowledging the meaning given by
Gaudapada. The commentary is concluded on a controversial
note with no definite outline of the true meaning. He seems to
see the term "chenna" being an incongruous addition and rightly
suspects the first Suthra as having a significant scientific
meaning. But these views are not given weightage by any of his
critics. Despite his doubts based on the possibility of an elliptical
meaning, the importance of the "Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-
abhavath" as a key phrase has not been recognised by him
either .
                    4. Gerald Larson's version:
Translation:

394
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
" Because of the torment of the threefold suffering, (there arises)
the desire to know the means of counteracting it. If (it is said
that) this (desire --i.e. Inquiry) is useless because perceptible
(means of removal are available) , ( we say) no, since perceptible
means are not final and abiding."

Commentary:

While he has dealt with it at length in his commentary, the last
sentence in his preamble in chapter 3 gives the true tone of his
subsequent explanations. He says " Hopefully our interpretation
will reveal that Sankhya is dealing in a significant manner with
some of the most difficult problems of religion and thought." He
further adds in appendix B note 2. " Generally, the present writer
has followed the commentaries of Guadapada, Vacaspatimisra
and Paramartha's Chinese version with respect to problems of
interpretation ."

In chapter 1, he groups the first three Suthras and gives a
combined interpretation pointwise as follows:
1. Human existence means suffering;
2. Sankhya system offers a way of salvation from suffering;
3. The way of salvation is by means of discriminative knowing;
4. The concept of saving knowledge is through discrimination of
the differences between avyakta-vyakta ( prakriti) and jna
(Purusha).

Under the heading of "Philosophical " he says "little light is shed
on the content of classical Sankhya as it is found in the Karika
itself. Part of the problem, of course, is that the Karika is a
difficult text which presents the system in a dogmatic, condensed
fashion. Thus it is natural to use any other available texts in
order to get at some of the underlying suppositions and
arguments not explicitly set forth in the Karika itself. Yet the
fact remains that the Karika is the oldest systematic text
available and it represents the content of classical Sankhya.
395
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Important to remember is that what the Karika fails to include is
as interesting as what it does include. It is the contention of the
present writer that the Karika can and should be given a unified,
consistent interpretation in and of itself without recourse to later
texts. It is also the contention of the present writer that the
system in the Karika is decidedly different from later statements
about the system , and furthermore, is quite different from the
most commonly accepted summaries and outlines of the system
presently available in the secondary literature."

                          Observation :

From the foregoing it is evident that Larsen realises the
originality and uniqueness of the Karika but fails to follow his
own findings but takes the lead given by others like Gaudapada.
He does not give weightage to the first Suthra and particularly
the last line. Though in the 68th Suthra the same words recur as
an elliptical proof following the lead given by the word
"chenna", this connection is not pursued by him either. Though
his translations of Suthras 2 and 3 are more indicative of the
scientific nature of the treatise and his grouping in items 3 and 4
of the first 3 Suthras clearly suggest that it is a science, the
importance of the "Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-abhavath" as a
key phrase is not recognised by him. If any one could have seen
its true import Larsen was the most likely person because of the
care he has shown to give contextual weightage to each word of
the Suthra but for some inexplicable reason had failed to apply
his intuitive understanding in his commentaries. In fact his final
conclusion is quite incongruous to his philosophical description
of Sankhya when he translates Suthra 68 as "At death , however
the man who possesses salvation knowledge attains 'certain' and
'final' 'isolation' ".
     There is no comment about the term 'du:kha' or "Aikaantha-
aathyantha-atho-abhavath" even though he expresses deep
dissatisfaction at his results. In expressing his dissatisfaction, he
has described the Adi Sankaracharya's criticism of Sankhya as
396
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
being based on interpretation unfounded by even a minimal
stretch of logic. However, he personally seems to have
succumbed to the same attitude he accuses the Sankaracharya of
holding the Vedas as being unquestionable because of its
allegedly divine origins. From his lengthy analysis and
conclusions one is able to glean his dissatisfaction with the
overall meanings given both by him and his colleagues to the
Suthras but has been unable to breakout onto a different lead. Of
all the translators he seems to have been the only one to feel the
need to decode the sankhya verses.
                    5. Richard Garbe's version:
While admitting it was a philosophical work by one person, he
emphasises its apparent atheistic leanings, based on reasoning to
solve the universal problems. In this context he suggests its
suitability for modern study. His commentaries are based on
those of Aniruddha and Vijnanabhikshu on classical lines giving
in to the same pitfalls. However he intuitively comes to the
conclusion that it is the earliest treatise and as proof he points out
the lack of a brahmanical tradition that is established strongly in
later works. Despite his intellectual foresight he does not give
enough weightage to the critical term in the first Suthra,
"Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-abhavath" nor the word " du:kha".
                  6. Joseph Dahlmann's version:
He describes Sankhya as the first systematic formulation of
ancient speculations, that included dimensions of cosmology and
psychology of creation /dissolution. He interprets it as a doctrine
of salvation based on the concept of an absolute Spirit with
techniques for self control and behaviour. He found it methodical
and consistent. But his views of the Suthras themselves are not
clearly enumerated to show his depth of understanding. No
weightage has been given by him to the term "Aikaantha-
aathyantha-atho-abhavath" or the word du:kha.
                   7. Paul Oltramare's version:
His views are similar to Garbe but sees Sankhya as a unique
system expressing the dualism of matter and spirit and a
derivative from the brahminical tradition with the concept of
397
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Yoga predating it. No weightage is given to the term "Aikaantha-
aathyantha-atho-abhavath"
                 8. Hermann Oldenberg's version:
He refers to the existence of a pre-classical Sankhya that
predates the oldest upanishads. He also mentions the
complementary use of logic in Sankhya like unity and
multiplicity, subject and object, self and nonself etc. The sense
of Sankhya logic is brought out by him uniquely, but no
weightage is given to the term "Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-
abhavath" that indeed contain the same sense of
complementarity.
               9. Arthur Barriedale Keith's version:
He sees Sankhya as a bundle of contradictions contemporaneous
to the Vedas and Upanishads. His involvement has been with
semantics rather than the holistic meaning.
                  10. Franklin Edgerton's version:
He views the treatise as just a method of attaining salvation
without any theory behind it. He comes to this conclusion
because there is no mention of a Sankhya system in what he
considers as earlier works.
                11. Surendranath Gupta's version:
He has delved into Sankhya details in the most systematic way to
realise its true scientific logic but sees the whole system as post
Vedic. Despite his enthusiasm for looking at the evolutionary
logic of Sankhya in the correct way he misses the point about
suffering really meaning stress in the universal sense and fails to
see the important connection to the substratum or "Aikaantha-
aathyantha-atho-abhavath" state.

                 12. E.H.Johnston's version:
His writings concern the history and the terminology and seems
to identify Sankhya as a complex mixture of contemporary
thought.
               13. Eric Frauwallner's version:
Offers the view that Sankhya is the earliest speculation on
cosmology and philosophy. The special attention to some words
398
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
and its connected concepts are realistic and his attribution of the
development of Sankhya to Pancasika is illuminating . However
he offers no insight into the term "Aikaantha-aathyantha-atho-
abhavath" nor does he see the term pain as being out of place
here.
                            14. Others
There are a number of other translators like J.A.B. van Buitenen,
J.W. Hauer, Mircea Eliade, Debiprasad Chattopadhyaya, K.C.
Bhattacharya, who have displayed erudition in analysing the
Sankhya terminology historically and contextually against
several later Vedic treatises and left mixed conclusions in the
mind of the reader. Others like Dr.Radhakrishnan, C.Sharma
give only a comparative critique against a background of
Advaitic Vedanta. Most Indian translators have treated Sankhya
in a reverential way which obviously prevented the authors from
interpreting it objectively. Most of the other Indian translators
can be placed into two camps, "for" and "against". Among the
"for" the direction has been to extract startling conclusions from
disconnected sections without any effort at unification to
highlight the coherent and continuous adherence to a single core
principle in Sankhya and most of their works tend to leave the
reader more confused than enlightened.
                          15. Conclusion
    One important point emerges from an overall analysis and
generalised understanding of the commentaries given by the
various translators. All of them have noted the existence of a
deeper philosophical principle in the Sankhya presentation,
which naturally implies that the meaning of the first Suthra
should also be re-interpreted to seek such a connection, as the
rendered version of the first Suthra certainly does not emphasise
its profoundness.
Looking at the meaning of the first Suthra in a holistically
connected way , as shown in the fourth paragraph of this
appendix:


399
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Du:khatrayaabhighataj -jijnasa
Tadabhighatake- hetau
Drishte sa’apartha chenna
Aikaanthaaathyanthaatho’bhavath

Investigating the triad of interactive stresses shows that such
interactive modes of stresses exist but it would not have been
detectable, had it not been for the existence of the
synchronised - perpetual - dynamic - unmanifest state of
existence (of the substratum).

The proof is as follows:

The term 'du:kha' has a very specific meaning of “stress related
to the substratum of space” for the following three important
reasons:

1. The term traya defines a numerical condition of the
subsequent term as being threefold. Abhighatha has the meaning
of "striking or extirpating" The sense of this word has a certain
degree of intenseness or violence implied. The process of an
interaction by impact or collision in three different ways namely
by compressive, expansive and shuttling action of the guna
characteristics would seem to be the most appropriate one since
the concept of Gunas are extensively dealt with, from Suthras 11
to 22. Further Suthra 30 refers to simultaneous and sequential
modes in a cycle which mathematically translates to a third order
damping constraint due to obstruction. Words usually associated
with pain, like removal, elimination, curing could have been
covered by other precise Sanskrit terms; for instance
'apasaarann.' the term 'abhigatha' has been specifically chosen to
imply a colliding, impacting, interactive type of stress acting in
three ways and not pain. The precise definition of the Guna
characteristics in later Suthras confirm the above meaning and
gives the entire work a cohesiveness that enables the student to

400
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
realise its profoundness. This interpretation is well supported by
the subsequent Suthras, as shown below.

2.     The second occurrence of the term du:kha (the first
occurrence is in the first suthra) in suthra 55 has been used twice
in the same suthra, emphasising its role as a technical term
within the contextual meaning of all the Suthras from 52 to 60. If
it is objectively and critically viewed, in the background of these
Suthras, the applicable meaning of the word du:kha cannot be
pain. Though the term du:kha does not recur in any of those
other Suthras, the trend of ideas preceding and following 55,
pertain to the descriptive definitions of various factors
surrounding the nuclear core, Purusha.

Suthra 52 deals with dual phases of phenomenon;
Suthra 53 deals with the classification of phenomenon;
Suthra 54 deals with the Guna characteristics of the manifest
field;
Suthra 55 deals with the gradation of stresses (DU:KHA) upto
the nuclear core as a self-similar process.
Suthra 56 deals with the evolution of the isolation of the nucleus
from the interactive field.
Suthra 57 deals with the collapse of the nuclear entity as the
primary force
Suthra 58 deals with the release of the potential that causes the
nuclear collapse.
Suthra 59 deals with the process of balance as the equaliser of
the forces
Suthra 60 deals with the static and dynamic qualities that bring
about the balance.

As can be seen plainly from the foregoing, the term DU:KHA is
not used in the context of human sensory feelings like pain,
suffering etc. but it does not exclude the inclusion of human
suffering as a form of stress due to a departure from normal,
natural and correct action or behaviour.
401
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

3. The current dictionary meaning of du:kha is pain or
difficulty. However the term "du:" is to burn or to afflict or
cause difficulty and "kha" has a number of meanings which
include the sky, heaven and brahma. Therefore the contextual
meaning of the term du:kha is stress or difficulty related to the
sky, heaven or brahma which is equal to the fundamental field of
the substratum in the fluid state. In vedic creations Shiva is a
pedagogical acronym for the (log) numerical value 8 (shi)
descending to 4 (va) that epitomises the thaamasic state of total
inertial power of the andhatamisrah (blackhole) state of 18
orders of magnitude , symbolised by the shivalinga with 18
shivagannas. Brahma, is an acronym for (log) numerical 3 (ba))
and 5 (ma) shuttling around 4, epitomises the rajasic fluid state
of resonance symbolised by the 103 = 1000 petalled lotus
floating in placid waters. Vishnu is an acronym for (log)
numerical 4 (va) expanding to 8 (sha) epitomises the radiative
satvic state symbolised by the axiomatic vibratory rate of 259
cycles from a conch shell rising to the axiomatic 8 th order of
magnitude from the luminous chakra. Therefore the term du:kha
could be correctly applied to the stress or force generated in
fundamental space or the dynamic substratum in which all
phenomenon originate and even more appropriate is the concept
of the three gunas as interactive stresses generated within it to
maintain a balance.
     Further, if one accepts the term du:kha equals pain due to
human suffering, then a very glaring break in the logical
continuity, of an extremely cogent set of Suthras, is exposed;
which requires a coherent and rigorous explanation as to why
this term has not been amplified and explained in detail in any
of the later Suthras? When Suthras 46 to 53 lists out in detail
variations in different types of interactive actions and reactions
that are not referred to anywhere else, why would an intellectual
giant like maharishi kapila leave out an important classification
of 3 modes of pain allegedly referred to in the very first suthra?
The three descriptions of pain are given only in the commentary
402
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
by gaudapada but there is no other connection or usage of these
terms in the entire set of 70 Suthras, implied or otherwise.
The connection with human suffering and pain has been brought
in as a pure conjecture by the authors. As shown earlier, the term
du:kha occurs again only in suthra 55 but with reference to
context of the sequence of adjoining Suthras, it has no
connection (even remotely) with human pain. Further the term
traya has a direct and important connection to the guna
definitions mentioned exhaustively, which then rules out even a
semblance of relationship to a stray term like pain or suffering
that have been neither emphasised nor touched upon in any of
the other Suthras.
From this critical analysis one can conclude with logical
certainty that the term du:kha refers to the three modes of stress
or states of non-synchronisation in the substratum for only then
the rest of the Suthras yield a wealth of information that goes
even beyond the boundaries of our current scientific knowledge.
The most striking and conclusive proof that it refers to the
substratum is the fact that Suthras 47 to 53 identifies precisely
the numerical sequence of the atomic periodic table evolved in
physics and chemistry and goes further to identify the hidden
coherent quark sequential blackhole structure that physics is
currently searching for in vain. The outstanding algorithm given
in suthra 3 could never have been translated if human suffering
was the correct meaning. The mathematical super symmetry
existing in the substratum could never have been exposed, by an
accidental mistranslation of the word du:kha. Considering the
published findings in current science, the numerical constants of
super symmetry are not yet known yet sankhya principles
accurately derive these numerical values. Hence du:kha, as used
in sankhya, is certainly not pain.
    It will be most inappropriate to leave out the analysis of the
Adi Sankaracharya's (around AD 750) on the Sankhyakarika.
His entire criticism of Sankhya had been made with a single
viewpoint of not allowing the Vedic foundation to be shaken by
even the most profound logic if it did not complement it. While
403
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
he used every identifiable uncertainty in the definition of logical
concepts to question Sankhya principles in order to safeguard
Vedic injunctions, it is apparent that it had been done on the
apparent understanding that the Sankhyakarika was post Vedic
and was based on atheistic principles that tried to remove the
divine foundation of Vedic aphorisms. What Sankhya treatise
reiterated was that axiomatic truths or 'Aptavachana' ( Suthras 4
and 5 ) are permanent; but not every Sanskrit word in the Vedas.
Hence terms like Aptavachana, Aptasrutir or the axiomatic status
of permanent validity, endowed the mantle of divinity without
question and the spirit of the Sankaracharya's understanding was
entirely preserved. It is quite indicative of the temper of that
period where a matter-oriented, mechanical description of the
Universe that apparently implied the exclusion of the "spiritual"
aspect, was not acceptable and summarily dismissed. The
astounding part of Sankhya is that it proves unequivocally that
the so called 'mechanical or material ' matter is in fact a purely
'spiritual or vibratory or non specific' state in a holographic
universe. Hence an axiomatic base provides it with the divine
classification that cannot be disproved even by the most complex
mathematical logic and more so by any pedagogic logic.
Therefore the apparent contradictions between intellectuals was
only due to superficial differences, for on greater analysis and
deeper thinking all the conundrums resolved themselves as
merely the complementary aspects of human intellectualism.

The following explanation is in defense of the apparent lack of a
successful outcome of past researcher on Sankhyan concepts. It
is very evident from the mode of presentation of the Sankhya
Suthras, that Maharishi Kapila has been impeccable in his
derivational logic and by maintaining the strictest accuracy in
defining the components of its axiomatic logic, he motivated the
student to establish the connections by a process of rigorous
analysis of the Suthras through a meditative technique outlined
in Suthras 4 to 6. Hence he did not define the substratum of
space by any single common noun but maintained his objectivity
404
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
by axiomatically defining it by the four states of interactions as
'Aikaantha- aathyantha- atho- abhavath ' , only once in the first
suthra but indirectly referred to it in every suthra by the word '
chenna = were it not for' . Thereby , not only did he fulfil the
needed logical rigor but also displayed the ultimate in reverence,
respect and obeisance to the fundamental Source and Sustainer
of the entire Cosmic phenomenon. Even in the Vedas it is 'That'.
Hence the epithet that Sankhya is an atheistic production is not
correct. On the contrary it unifies theology with science. Failure
to apply the meditative technique to decode the mathematical
axioms seems to have been the cause of not understanding the
Sankhya Karika by the earlier authors.

NOTE: It is evident from commentaries and reviews of the
original Vedic and Puranic verses, the various authors (of that
period) had no inkling of the real time gap that existed between
themselves and the subject matter under their review. Only
future progress in science will do full justice to the meaning of
the Suthras. The current level of proficiency in holistic
mathematical logic needs to be raised to its full potential and
only such a process will aid total comprehension when dealing
with self similar laws of nature. The saying that one picture is
worth a thousand words is apt when one realises that one needs
numerous iterative mathematical formulas to draw a picture
mechanically on a computer. The human mind can grasp the
essential meaning of the picture in an instant whereas the
mathematical formulas would only indicate a trend even to the
most astute mathematician. While mathematics is necessary as
an important tool to enhance understanding it has to be
augmented with human holistic mental intelligence to grasp
natures axiomatic principles. Man has to realise that both
language and mathematics are codes that are only useful for
communicating ideas or principles to others, but total
understanding and comprehension of phenomenon at the
personal level are beyond the limits of such codes and in fact
there is no need for them in a holistic meditative thinking
405
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
process. In that sense true literacy leading to abundant wisdom is
not dependant only on learning these codes but on using the
skills of the human cerebral system fully and completely.
Sankhya Karika also called Sankhya Yoga shows the perfect
meditative Siddhi technique of achieving perfection in the
thinking process in Suthras 4,5 and 6.




406
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

              Appendix 2: Origin Of The Vedas..

    (Article in World Affairs, vol.6, No.3 Jul/Sep 2003.)
The Vedas have roused man's curiosity around the globe at one
stage or another. Just to know that so many intellectuals
dedicated themselves to unravelling its meaning, is a tribute in
itself, even though they failed to agree as to what the ancient
creations really meant. Some extolled its virtues and praised it to
the skies. While others weary from wresting a meaning,
condemned it to the dungeons of despair. Are the Vedas an
esoteric creation and if so who composed it in ancient times?
Thereby hangs a historic tale of an intellectual colossus, who
mathematically solved the riddle of manifestation aeons ago.
One is immediately prompted to raise the question 'why was it's
real meaning not exposed in all this time'? Some modern
intellectuals attempting the translations misjudged its scientific
content for one thing. An erroneous 6000-year guesstimate of its
origin prevented researchers from suspecting a possible
difference in meaning of words from an older form of Sanskrit.
For instance in current Sanskrit the term Du:kha means 'pain' but
in the older version it is 'stress' as a technical term. A not so
widely known fact was that Vedic authors of oral creations
depended on the natural process of 'experiencing' real
information as an ideal way to understanding phenomenon.
Today animated graphic techniques make it easy to communicate
the most complex ideas. In Vedic times too, the same principle
was used to produce a dynamic imagery through a precisely
formulated oral system. The verses contained six types of
controls as rhyme rhythm, tone, inflection, emphasis and
onomatopoeic meaning. Applying these factors to each set of
verse 'simultaneously' through the learnt 'meditative Siddhi
technique' created a real experience in the mind. The Dharma
Mega Samadhi state helped to understand the meaning the author
tried to convey. This process established an unequivocal
understanding of the author's purpose in creating the verses. The
407
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Pratisakhya, also in a similar metric form as an adjunct to each
Veda, aided it. The fact that the original authors saw the need for
a supplement to aid comprehension provided an important clue
to Vedic profoundness.
The foregoing is an important reason why the 'non-meditative'
translations of the postglacial re-written manuscripts invariably
yielded utter gibberish. Most translations failed because the
researchers made the serious error of splitting up sets that
destroyed a verse's contextual meaning in a Siddhi process. Few
had that patience, except perhaps Swami Vivekananda, Sri
Aurobindo, Lokmanya Tilak and Jagadguru Bharathi Krishna
Thirtha among others. They took the difficult route of going
through the original versions. The Lokmanya and the Jagadguru
investigated, hypothesised and had the courage to write about it.
Recent research indicated that Vedas contained a very advanced
axiomatic theory of a Universe. It functioned on a holographic
basis or through the concept of Maya which was misconstrued as
an illusion. Such an advanced concept unequivocally unified the
controversial 'material / spiritual' divide through axiomatic
mathematics. Even today, Physics and Cosmology are strangers
to the holographic concept as applied to the Universe. Probably
scientific translators too would have had to wait for the research
environment to catch up with such ideas.
The present writer crossed the barrier of disbelief due to a
fortunate set of events. Decoding the very first Sloka of the
Rigveda, correctly, yielded a novel 'energy extraction principle'.
It led to inventing an unusual electric motor that violated known
electromagnetic principles (see details presented below).
Similarly, the first Sloka of the Atharvaveda yielded, by
decoding correctly, a profound energy principal. It led to the
fundamentals of quantum physics and the very foundation for a
holographic phenomenon. It gave a decisive clue to the source of
coherent energy in space. Tests carried out with an invented
device (currently under improvement) confirmed that concept.
Was it a coincidence that the very first verse in the Rigveda and
the Atharvaveda defined the very first fundamental principle in
408
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
electromagnetic and quantum theory? These experiences led to
decoding ancient man's greatest and ultimate scientific
achievement in the Vedas. That process found the ancient man
turned out to be the teacher for mankind!
Science of the rational.
 The reality of the Universe is an axiomatic fact. Yet, a human-
centric intellectual would not let it pass without a challenge. His
argument would probably emphasise the duality seen in every
aspect of human existence. Hence, he would postulate the need
for an observer to confirm the existence of the observed. The
implication being that in the absence of an observer the Universe
just 'disappears'. This conceptual hyperbole exists at the very
altars of our scientific temple. Both the 'concepts of particle-
wave duality' and ' principle of uncertainty' were self-
explanatory anomalistic principles that existed in Theoretical
Physics (Physics). Then there were the enigmatic quantum
fluctuations in a supposedly empty and vacuous space. The
theory of Special Relativity (SR) exposed space-time
contractions involving shrinking rods & slowing clocks which
seemed to defy common sense perceptions. The unexpected
failure of the Michelson Morley experiments to detect the
medium for propagation of light in space spurred many of these
principles into existence. The reason behind the plethora of
unusual scientific principles is just one simple fact.
A measurement is an interactive process that takes time. Until
the interaction is complete or the measuring cup is full, the
observer cannot complete the act of measurement. This fact
applies to observers of both the human and instrumented kind.
The latter is merely a sophisticated extension of our sensory
processes. Even the very act of observing the Universe is a
process of measurement The perplexing point here is when does
the observer know the interaction called measurement is actually
completed? So the observer invents a clock that shows an
interval he arbitrarily calls a second. Then he moronically
compares all measurements in terms of this holy second. The
409
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
result was as expected, uncertainty. Imagine a blind man filling a
measuring cup for a second when it actually needed just one
tenth of a second. The scientific researcher had been doing just
what the blind man did, overlooking the nine cups that
overflowed. The natural consequence of such a process was
somewhere down the line the measurements refused to tally. And
that despite established standards of accuracy, in a catchword
called dimensionality that did not match up to the real Universe.
Was there a way to tally this huge loss? The perfect answer
comes from unbelievable quarters, for it transcends the history of
modern man.
The desire for fame, wealth and the consequent pressure, from
the fiercely competitive world of national finance, compounded
by the invisible world of scientific peerdom, drove researchers to
establish credible avenues of escape from unresolvable errors.
The process of redemption was to dilute every serious and
irreconcilable error through a profound principle. It is
unbelievable but true that every profound principle in Physics
and Cosmology, gloss over areas ridden with hidden problems
that defies human understanding. After the Newtonian magnum
opus on Gravitation in the 17th century, the twin theory of
General and Special Relativity (GR and SR) offered the key to
resolving the manifestation process.
Unfortunately, it opened the doors to a nest of Pandora's box-of-
anomalies. Its prime anomaly, the perpetual 'equality of
gravitational and inertial mass', was quickly laid to rest by
propounding the Principle of Equivalence. The next major
anomaly, was the necessity to find one of the nine lost cups,
called the Cosmological constant. It was needed to balance the
complex GR equations. Before long, another unresolvable
anomaly turned up accidentally, which bailed out the GR
theorems. Hubble, an astronomer, discovered an anomalous and
enigmatic behaviour in the expected result of spectral
measurements. It was in regions where, man the observer, could
never physically verify. The rate of measurements, through his

410
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
extended eye the telescope, seemed to get slower and slower as
man peered future and further into the Cosmos.
Hubble 'theorised' that could happen only if the Universe was
expanding, like a rubber balloon. Einstein immediately saw the
avenue of escape to hide the missing cup in his GR conundrum.
From it evolved the grossest theory of the Big Bang expanding
Universe. Kind nature did not comply, for instead of hiding at
least that one-cup to mollify the GR inadequacy, it sprang a
surprise of an equally gross order. Other researchers from the
cosmic bench went on a search, for there was a tremendous
shortage of the basic stuff, the so-called dark matter in empty
space. And GR needed it immediately to ward off the collapse of
a theory that predicted the ultimate cosmic collapse in the Big
Bang. Something very mysterious was happening. For the
equations, that had not even spotted the missing nine cups, cried
out for just one more cup. While Hubble ostensibly provided it
just in time to support the expansion, the cosmologists were
calculating the number (running into billions) of cups, needed to
start the contraction. A fundamental question arose in the minds
of the fraternity. Was the Universe really expanding and then
whereto? If not, into what will it contract? And as the questions
increased, science kept discovering more phenomena, which
promised to decrease them, through a paradigm called
unification.
Moving to the seat of action, space, where the treasure-chest
containing the perfect answer hid, researchers found a revolution
taking place, in thinking 'small'. In the early 1900's a series of
anomalies cropped up that defied common-sense solutions.
Stating it in lay language experiments on transmission of energy
showed that the quantity and volume increased proportionately.
While Hubble had the advantage of peering through an eyepiece
to detect the distance related rate anomaly; the energy
experimenters had the disadvantage of conducting only indirect
measurements. For the physical parameters of energy-
interactions were in the micro-dimensional region. In a bid to
find the limits of the energy radiation spectrum, ingenious
411
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
procedures were used to find the answers. But the nemesis called
contradiction turned up again! Contrary to expectations, instead
of increasing proportionately, it collapsed at the highest energy
level. It took the world of Physics by surprise. Not having found
a solution, researchers named it the Boltzman paradox and the
Ultraviolet catastrophe in deep space.
Later, Max Planck conjectured through complex mathematics
that as energy was always being transmitted in packets, cups or
quanta, the observed characteristics were to be expected. Thus
Quantum Physics was born but another serious anomaly was
making the process of measurement uncertain. Scientists found
they could not verify the position while measuring the velocity
of a particle. Next, when it was located, they could not measure
its rate of motion simultaneously. This quandary had to be
resolved quickly for the scientists were unsure as to where to
search for the elusive particle or quantum. So they propounded,
under compelling circumstances, the Principle of Uncertainty. It
stated emphatically that a particle's 'position and movement
cannot be measured simultaneously'. We are now squarely back
to the starting point of our dialogue when it only implied that the
Universe disappeared without an observer. Heisenburg's
principle of uncertainty had now certified it as being correct and
the scientific community had no way out of this dilemma.
Was it possible that in this solid and real looking Universe an
observer could not detect something? Scientists did some serious
introspection. Armed with a further string of fringe experiments
under various names, showed that the particle or quantum
disappeared only for a moment. Though it was impossible to
confirm the location, it could be guessed with a tool called
quantum statistics. By now, the scientific fraternity had travelled
the intellectual road of profound principles that started with the
desire to be accurate and specific. But it had to be content with
uncertainty and probability as key principles in Physics. Though
credibility was at stake scientist refused to look for answers
outside the laboratory environment. The reason was simple.
Once it opened its doors to external principles, the logical
412
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
continuity could become suspect and internal test for consistency
broken. While theoretical science faced all the above intellectual
hurdles, experimental science flourished, because a trial and
error process led to concrete, usable results of some acceptable
order. It was welcome, as in such a process one could not
establish a theoretical goal initially. In this background, one can
realise that acceptance of any alternate theory, however perfect,
would meet with stiff resistance from the scientific community.
For right now, all hopes are pinned on a theory based on 'super-
symmetry' of 'super-strings'. What scientists were not aware of,
the very source for all such theories was already lying hidden in
a strange corner and defined in a stranger language.
Science of the irrational

    So far, one side of the coin, the rational observer from a
protected elite, was analysed and conclusions arrived at. It left
the state of scientific enquiry, into the fundamental cause of
Universal phenomenon, in intellectual limbo. The other side of
this coin entailed a research process more complex and
confusing, called holistic perception. Like in science it was also
a measuring process but of a different order. This investigative
area was very large indeed. It had under its ken the entire range
of phenomenon that rational scientists would not deign to touch.
The identifiable spectrum covered telepathy, clairvoyance, and
psychokinetic phenomenon, under the umbrella of a pseudo
scientific term called ESP or extra sensory perception. Then of
course there was astrology; palmistry, numerology, iching and
more, cleverly disguised through an ambivalent description like
Oriental studies. It further extended to sensitive areas of unusual
acts through divine intervention called miracles and
manifestations. That had the silent and ambiguous approval of
the respective religious pontiffs who automatically put a no-entry
sign to an outside investigation. There were numerous fringe-
events witnessed and confirmed by the lay public, like 'bleeding
pictures' and 'milk-drinking idols'. Again, there were other events
413
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of oracular donkeys braying 'in' good fortune and mischievous
poltergeist children breaking the neighbour's roof. Shamanistic
performers exorcised ghosts and rural seers detected thieves
through an oily betel leaf. Nimble fortune-tellers using seeds,
sticks and shells divined the future while mystics made profound
predictions from observing lizards, insects and birds. Voodoo,
witchcraft, blackmagic and the list of possible ways to perceive
holistically grew without bound.
What is more thought provoking is the fact that while the
multitudes swore by these experiences, the stoic silence with
which the scientific fraternity greeted such news was indeed
astounding. It looked almost like they were from another planet
where laboratory experimentation and complex mathematics
ruled every inch of the way. Science stands for objective
curiosity itself and yet scientists failed to display this basic trait
towards an enigmatic area. Even plain curiosity could have paid
significant dividends by discovering esoteric principles
underlying such phenomenon. And no one can deny that
phenomenon it is.
Early European society had geared itself to tackle science on an
organised footing from a few hundred years back. Europeans
considered this area to be their domain and preserve.
Experimental inventiveness based on the need to survive a
hostile environment paid rich dividends in numerous ways and
automatically established the proprietary status for its
developments and products. The tropical and Eastern societies,
on the other hand, continued with systems developed over long
years of experience in surviving a more benign environment that
was relatively stress free. The axiomatic Coriolis force endowed
the tropical regions with the bounties of nature. It renewed,
revived and recycled the environment in perfect harmony with
nature's complex growth cycles. When nature itself played a
decisive role in guiding their destinies into a state of effortless
fulfilment it was no surprise that the incumbents in turn looked
at natural phenomenon with wonder and reverence. That
ultimately turned into divine worship. Their passive outlook and
414
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
reverential attitude towards nature as an arbiter of natural and
benevolent law gave them faith, courage and patience. They
learned to await the cyclic changes with equanimity and
optimism.       Tropical inhabitants, world wide, type cast
themselves into a mould of nature worshipers. They bent
themselves to its will with utter submission. This was in stark
contrast to the early European group who bent nature's forces to
their will in a bid to survive the rigours of that location. A
calamitous double fault in the precessional equinoctial-cycle had
driven these settlers into this location. They overcame a calamity
by innovative skill and a self-developed aggressive outlook. That
gave them the experience to lead the world in the art of
subjugating nature's forces. This very calamity yields the key to
the diverse history of modern man on this planet. Plus the fact
that a previous era had produced an intellectual solution to the
puzzle of manifestation.
Nature's devotees in the tropics had already established the
school for holistic investigation into natural phenomenon. It
included the Mayas, Incas, Mexicans, Amerindians, Egyptians,
Africans, Indians, Chinese, inhabitants of the Malaysian,
Indonesian, Southsea island archipelagos, in short the dwellers of
the tropics. They had diverse experience in the practice of the
occult, mystic, magical, spiritual and a range of holistic practices
in perceiving and understanding phenomenon. Unlike the
scientific fraternity, this area functioned through a heterogeneous
sprinkling of practitioners without a common platform of theory
or principle. Most of their information, handed down from one
generation to the next, made the process a subjective real-time
affair. This group considered the observer and the observed were
one, which eliminated the concept of measurement and its
consequential collateral damage. It was recognised as a time
evolved or axiomatic principle that the Universe was a real,
experiencable, singular entity. So any artefact of mental or
physical derivations could not separate out the observer from the
observed. While the reality of the Universe as a factual entity
was never in doubt, these investigators never attempted to
415
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
establish a credible communication system. Such investigators
experienced a feeling of certainty that prevented them
questioning the acceptability of pedagogical descriptions and
verbal definitions of complex events at face value. The
possibility of variations in the choice of words and the structure
of sentences in a pedagogical communication conveyed an air of
inherent fuzziness. It made it difficult to extract the correct
meaning. The consequence of this increasing gap in
communication, not only marginalised them as a group from the
scientific fraternity but split them further into smaller groups that
battled among themselves for recognition. These investigators
had unwittingly strangulated themselves with their own lack of
communication principles. A few modern holistic investigators
had attempted to establish a laboratory model infrastructure but
the outcome had not found acceptance in the scientific fraternity.
The laboratory type of observer / instrument/ observed type of
divide could not be introduced into holistic research where the
researcher himself was the laboratory and his senses the
instrument for observing himself. However in recent years Dr.
Puharich, a dedicated researcher into psychic phenomena, spent
almost a decade investigating Uri Gellers' psychokinetic acts. He
observed Geller's performance under the supervision of Stanford
Research Institute in the US, to establish scientific credibility.
Despite confirmation of extraordinary psychokinetic acts,
conducted under strict scientific supervision, there has been no
reaction, except stony silence, from the ivory tower of Physics.

The Cataclysm in the Vedas and its origin.

  India, due to an historical advantage, took the lead in
investigating holistic phenomenon. It included spiritual and
yogic practices handed down ages ago from which it established
a theoretical paradigm, based on disprovable axioms. While
Physics had resorted to the unification paradigm to extricate
itself from the intellectual mire of empirical science, the Indians
416
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
based their thoughts on axiomatic principles that had the quality
of unification built into it. These axiomatic, holistic principles
formulated aeons ago, for all humanity, were the Vedas in
Sanskrit. These were a sublime creation, not because it was
from any divine source as the nature-devotees in the tropics
naturally liked to claim, but its logical structure was immaculate,
consistent and self proving, as it was based on numerical axioms.
The concept of a divine origin for the Vedas had in support a
number of circumstantial events that lead to this conjecture. The
logical sequence of events leading to the needed background was
cogently hypothesised through relevant mathematical adjuncts,
by Lokmanya Tilak. He published the results of his meticulous
research in his two classical books "The Orion" and "The Arctic
Home in the Vedas". In it he hypothesised that a Vedic
civilisations existed prior to the Glacial floods in the Arctic
region. It had an equitable climate then due to certain
precessional deviations in the planetary orbital cycles. Stating a
truism, the historical memory of ancient events lingers in direct
proportion to the calamitous level of collateral damage it
invokes. One such event exists in all the profound writings and
historical pronouncements of nations, countries, races, religious
and ethnic groups of people, the unforgettable flood.
The glacial floods virtually destroyed all signs of human
achievements or progress in the previous era. It left in its
aftermath no relic of any importance that could have provided a
handle of connectivity with civilisations that must have existed
earlier. However, there is some confirmation through recent
media reports of archaeological findings containing 40000-year-
old human artefacts and implements in the Arctic Circle.
Scientific corroboration of the glacial-melt causing the floods
have been well established and documented to erase any doubts
about its veracity. The glacial catastrophe occurred more than
10000 years ago. The survivors were certainly not the first-line
of Homo sapiens so one had to believe they had forbears before
the floods. A major reason for the historical haze surrounding
pre-glacial man is this catastrophe. By wiping out any vestigial
417
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
signs of an earlier civilisation, it eliminated the motive to look
for evidence in currently developed areas. This uncertainty of
origin was one of the reasons for a divine source for Vedic
aphorisms.
 The Vedas contained information in a language that was austere,
cryptic and most unlike a primitive creation. For the verses
structured on a rigorous metric interval, displayed the intellectual
skill of its authors. Creating poetical compositions at the best of
times required a huge vocabulary and a flexible flow of words to
maintain a rhythm. Resorting to this style of communication
meant they were deliberately hamstringing themselves with the
full knowledge that the process of information transfer would be
made difficult. The normal question from this generation would
be 'why would they take the difficult path', but it has an answer.
They could not have created the unusually large number of
verses, in the same style and format (ensuring the same origin),
in the 4000-year interval after the flood. That is assuming
evidence of Vedic creations was first exposed as late as 6000
years ago. Even today with all the advertising, publishing and
other media marketing aids any serious literary creation fails to
get wide acclaim in less than a couple of years. If we go back
1000 years, there exists no widely known physical evidence of
the prevailing thoughts then except on stone. That at best can be
the equivalent of a few hundred verses. Considering the logistics
alone, of collecting tens of thousands of verses into one area,
without an associated system, is well nigh impossible even in
6000 years. Soon after the floods, the only immediate concern of
the survivors would have been 'how to survive' and not 'how to
compose verse'. The Vedas could never have been composed
after the floods for the intellectual content far surpasses even the
knowledge of scientists today. Just a cursory inspection of a
statistical growth-modelling algorithm gives about 12000 years
for Vedic information in our possession.
 On deeper analysis, one found that the clues in the Vedas itself
were an unimpeachable source to proclaim its origin. It was
indeed a veritable time capsule for modern man. Lokmanya
418
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Tilak, who sprang to the quick because of derogatory statements
made by occidental translators of the Vedas, diligently sought
out Vedic clues. The esoteric clues made him look at the most
accurate clock in the Universe, the stellar sky. By a series of
logical and meticulous analyses based on mathematical
verification, he deduced the probable and possible date of Vedic
creations, after taking into account the dislocation caused by the
glacial melt. He arrived at a possible 12000 years to a probable
20000 years for the intervening period. Then he found that the
Vedic anomalies in the climatic, solar and stellar cycles were
resolved by locating those ancient observers within the Arctic
Circle. The variations in the cyclic precessional period of the
equinoxes contributed to an uneven polar climatic cycle. (Vedic
theory shows that the Solar system orbit in the Galaxy has an
eccentricity value similar to planetary orbits.) The Lokmanya
along with other geological scientists & colleagues from Europe
calculated and established the range of temperature variations
that would have been possible then. It showed that, in the cycle
prior to the glacial floods, equitable temperature conditions
would have prevailed for a long time in the Arctic, when human
civilisation could have flourished. He found another fallout. The
Zend-Avesta (Zoroastrian religious book) was indeed of the
same origin as the Vedas. He discovered detailed confirmation
for his hypothesis from the description of the then prevailing
climatic conditions recorded in it. The succeeding generation of
survivors, oblivious to their preglacial origin and being nature
worshippers, naturally ascribed the Vedic aphorisms to a divine
source and labelled it as a 'permanent' creation that was not of
'human origin'. But they did not realise that axiomatic creations
too could be defined in the same way.

Proof through Stellar positions and post glacial renaissance

Further, the passages in the Atharvaveda under the
Nakshatradevatyam verses identified a sequence of precessional
419
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
equinoctial coincidences beginning with the Nakshatra
Punarvasu, the Vedic zero degree ecliptic position. The recorded
coincidence could have only occurred 32000 years ago for the
immediate coincidence had taken place just 6000 years back.
That was too short a period to rationally justify the quality and
quantity of Vedic creations. The fact of its mention is verifiable
evidence, which confirms the observation of those stellar
sequences by ancient witnesses. It provided an acceptable
connectivity to their period of development. Their pinpointing
the ecliptic crossing in the Nakshatra Magha when the floods
would have taken place acts as additional evidence. Another
puzzling factor that adds conviction is the question 'how could
they know to accurately calculate precessional cycles when
knowledge of this inertial process was a post Newtonian event'.
A more precise proof exists in their choice of twenty-eight
Nakshatra positions to describe the precessional progress. The
number came from an advanced scientific theory mentioned
below. In it, a circle contains twenty-eight axiomatic sectors of a
coherent state, instead of the arbitrary and primitive 360-degree
division in postglacial thought. Not withstanding these clues,
there is another scientific evidence that confirms by default. The
answer as to why they created the verses in rigorous metrical
framework became clear when the present writer decoded,
through the Siddhi process, the first and grandest sloka in the
Rigveda. The sloka "agnimile purohitum yajnasya
devamritvajam hotaram ratnadhatamam" turned out to be an
extraordinary theorem on extraction of energy from space by
triggering it into an expansive state. Surprisingly the composer
had built-in the proving answer to this theorem as a numerical
code wherein each letter stood for a number value. The number,
precise to the third decimal place after dimensional conversions,
was equal to the modern value of a relative volume of light or
Electro magnetic wave formed in one second. That information
provided the motivation to invent, test and demonstrate a free
energy electric motor. Its novelty lay in the fact that it violated
Faraday / Maxwell electromagnetic laws, as it had no magnetic
420
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
field. It not only worked but also displayed free energy or over-
unity efficiency characteristics. This is a singularly effective
proof of Vedic excellence in scientific knowledge. The writer
and his eldest son demonstrated the motor and explained its
principle of operation, outside the known electrical laws, at the
Gravitation Energy Conference in Hanover in 1986. The details
of the motor were published in the Indian Express on 24th. Nov.
1987.
 How could the Vedic forefathers have known all this unless they
had cracked the scientific codes of nature? There is an excellent
reason given further below. However, a little digression will lay
the correct foundation to show the contrast between the two
systems of scientific analysis. Briefly tracing the 10000-year
diary of human renaissance, after the floods, leads to some
hypothetical conclusions. It also offers a logical explanation to
many conjectured 'facts' of history. The survivors from the
Arctic Region turned southward, into Europe, Asia Minor, Persia
and India. The present European stock took the path of
confrontation to battle out the climatic conditions in Europe, and
as described earlier, managed to survive the rigours of that
region. They overcame nature's hurdles by sheer will through a
range of adhoc innovations that European history extolled
proudly. The fact that the origin of all white populations
anywhere in the world today leads back to Europe provides a
signal confirmation to that hypothesis. The Asiaminor visitors
not harassed by the weather gods continued to survive
comfortably until a spontaneous genetic re-awakening drove
them into intellectual and philosophical innovations. That has
produced the only two monotheistic disciplines of Christianity
and Islam in one area, almost at the same time, relatively
speaking. The older form of Judaism historically had a part to
play during the floods but later, it probably influenced the newer
theism. It is very indicative that all these theistic disciplines have
holistic perception, as the base for its spiritual practises. That
cannot be a mere coincidence for they are very divergent in their
religious goals.
421
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The settlers in Persia and India brought with them the relics of
the glacial melt in an unusual form. It was a complete system
that 'developed, maintained and practised' the natural laws of
Universal manifestation based on axioms, as a continuous and
continuing process. The preglacial ritualistic practice of
repeating the memorised verses daily from the age of seven
onwards under the tutelage of Gurus or holistic teachers of
different schools, ensured the continued transfer of all the
informative verses to successive generations. Instead of creating
books, they created a 'human information' memory bank. This
living library, based on the genetic propensities of the individual,
trimmed, trained and honed to perfection by the specific sage as
Guru for each discipline, transmitted knowledge to the next
generation. It produced the most effective instrument for
transferring knowledge to their next of kin through a human
memory bank based on genetic lineage or Gothra. The Gothra
system was linked to stellar positions, or Nakshatras, based on
axiomatic facts of genetic propensities. The Vedic system of
composing verse for oral transmission was a superior form of
communication compared to processes that depended on scripts.
Its perfection also lay in the construction of memorable phrases,
each letter of which, stood for a numerical value. Hence, they
were able to transmit even 25 decimal-place-numbers without
error. Trained in meditative practices the students became adept
in each discipline that needed no pen or paper. The written
structure of Sanskrit developed much later by postglacial
survivors, was a primitive and incomplete effort at preserving
those Vedic verses. The nth generation survivors seemed to have
forgotten, the six built in factors for oral communication,
(mentioned in the first para,) that a meditative Siddhi process
needed. This fact is glaringly evident in some modern
translations of two adjacent verses in a set. Often it shows no
connection between the two whatsoever. But as every meditator
knows one can extract the true meaning of a set only when all its
related verses are held simultaneously in a state of contemplation
or Dhyana
422
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
An effective preglacial system that had continued for ages
survived the cataclysmic event by the sheer momentum of past
practices spread widely. The relatively few survivors were able
to regurgitate their memorised knowledge without a break. It
ensured the complete revival and renaissance of Vedic
knowledge. That, ostensibly, was one reason why this group
lacked motivation to re-invent religious, philosophical or
scientific systems. Vedic scientific knowledge was epitomised in
one preglacial creation the Bhagavadgita. It had for its axiomatic
core, the creation by an intellectual colossus Maharishi Kapila,
the Sankhyayoga. The unforgettable & dramatisable background
creation, the Mahabharatha had both the Bhagavadgita with the
imbedded Sankhyayoga as its scientific and philosophic
foundation. To appreciate the sheer ingenuity involved in
creating this information transfer process one must realise it
targeted three groups simultaneously. While Sankhyayoga
(Sankhya) or the theory of counting as Jnanayoga focussed on
the rational intellectual, the Bhagavadgita provided the
philosophic meaning through a pedagogic dialogue between the
personalities of Sri Krishna and Arjuna as Bhaktiyoga. And
finally at the lay public through the most vibrant and
unforgettable setting of a battlefield background with the
possibility of dramatising every event in the manifestation
process as Karmayoga. It was not a religion but an axiomatic
science that practised its laws holistically and ritually which
eventually gained a religious equation. It was an elite concept of
practising axiomatic laws called Dharma. The theory based
entirely on axioms had eternal validity. For one cannot disprove
an axiom.
 Above all, it was a system practised by the preglacial forefathers
and an accident of nature left it as a relic to postglacial man. The
54th. verse in Sankhya gives a circumstantial clue to its origin.
The range of manifestation is defined as 'brahma' at one limit and
'stamba' or fixed-point as the other. This definition can never
have been created in the postglacial scenario. For Brahma, here,
is a revered, pivotal deity, whereas brahma was a technical term
423
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
for the field of cosmic space in the earlier era. Modern
translators must realise that Vedas in verse was not meant for
this generation just as we know that Physics today is not aimed
at a civilisation surviving a holocaust. Additionally, a telling fact
to ponder over is that how and why did the re-writers of Veda
and Avesta cover the same process and period, in two different
scripts, at about the same time, if they knew of their origin?
Again, why was there later, a proliferation-of-re-interpretations
as Bhuddism, Jainism, Vaishnavism, Saivism, Vashistadvaitism
etc if it were not a clear indication of dissatisfaction in
understanding the preglacial gift? Maxmuller, under the firm
impression that the Vedas were a superior form of polytheism,
classified it as a henotheistic system, a subordinate to his ideal,
the monotheistic religion. His dogmatic views in fact set the pace
for mutilating Vedic translations by modern research workers.
Despite the foregoing pedagogy, what follows is clinching proof,
for the mathematical contents and scientific concepts in this
axiomatic theory could never, never have come even from
today's scientific elite, let alone post glacial man. The surprise of
surprises lies in this ancient treatise, the Holy Grail of
unification, that exposes the error in a so-called axiomatic
constant of GR that shot Einstein into scientific fame. Therefore,
there cannot be any doubt that the Mahabharatha, Bhagavadgita
and its core, the Sankhyayoga, belong to the same period and
considering its extraordinary scientific content, as shown below,
it certainly cannot be of postglacial origin. The confidence, that
this theory is precise and correct, comes only from the fact that
its numerical parameters match those of Physics with a better-
than-acceptable order of accuracy. These comparative numbers
are shown below in a tabulated form.
The axiomatic and unified theory of Sankhya
What did Maharishi Kapila propound in the Sankhyayoga
(Sankhya) that entitled it to be the core of the Bhagavadgita? It is
highly indicative that in chapter 10, verse 26, Sri Krishna
identifies himself with Muni Kapila as the master of Siddhi.
424
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Sankhya is not only mentioned by name in the second chapter
verse 39, but its heading is Sankhyayoga, as an introduction to
the most profound philosophy on which the subsequent
dialogues proceed. Its importance is doubly certified as the
principles of Sankhya are mentioned several times in almost
every chapter. Maharishi Kapila created 68 sets of verses (total
70) or Suthras (theorems of logic), each of which contained a
proposition and its solution that explained the entire
manifestation process of the Universe. While it is well nigh
impossible to do justice to this extraordinary theory in this short
expose, this brief highlight of its axiomatic principles will be
shown as a lesson in logic.
1. The first verse, which had the starting proposition as a query,
also contained a conditional solution. The test for its
acceptability depended on the correctness of subsequent
solutions. It was an intelligent way to connect all the
propositions rigorously to the first solution. The method of
elliptical negation provided logical internal proof. Even today,
Physics would not impose such a constraint for it cannot unify
even one set of forces.
2. It was based on numerical axioms, which cannot be disproved
and was valid for all times. No theory in science is based on
numerical axioms as of today.
3. The entire mathematical process involved only counting. Sir
Roger Penrose, author of twister theory, foresaw that a correct
theory could only be based on some principle of combinatorial
counting.
4. Sankhya theory is based on starting from a clean slate. Physics
was started right in the middle from experimental inputs that
became empirical and so has tremendous complications for it to
find its clean slate.
5. All manifestation processes were defined by one type of event
and that was an interaction in three modes. Science today has a
variety of definitions, like mass, momentum, acceleration,
energy etc, except quantum theory which counts the rate of

425
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
phenomenon, based on the Planck's constant. It is the closest to
Sankhya principles.
6. The first interaction can axiomatically be only between the
first two objects. So all the laws of interaction must be
completely derived within the very first interaction. Physics
having started in the middle has a very long way to go before it
can define the first interaction.
7. All counts of interactions were always a ratio between one set
and another similar unit, so that dimensionality of the interacting
objects cancelled out and only a pure relational and
dimensionless number formed the solution. The unit 1 in
Sankhya is a ratio of infinity upon infinity. This is an important
feature in science for keeping account of dimensionality, which
complicates Physics to ridiculous levels.
8. Since only interactions were to be counted, all manifestation
consisted only of oscillations or vibrations. In terms of a
scientific concept, it meant that Sankhya treated the Universe as
a vibrating hologram (spirituality or ethereal vibrations in lay
equivalence). It was either changing its state by transmigration of
stresses or oscillated in the same location as a frozen hologram.
It is an advanced concept that removes all the anomalies in
Physics mentioned in the second paragraph.
9. Interactions took place in 3 Guna modes namely simultaneous,
resonant and radiant states. The equivalent in Physics is the
inelastic or Thaama, elastic or Sathwa and weak interactive force
or Raja. The three Sankhya modes dealt only with time cycle
variations as a counting procedure. Logically in a dynamic
theory cyclic time was the true variable, for Sankhyan space
being real and substantial, could not vary.
10. Space as the foundation of the Cosmos or Universe was
described only by the relative interactive qualities needed to
sustain manifestation and ensured that only the process of
counting interactions was used to account for its balanced state.
From the scientific point of view it was not necessary to consider
the quality of space or its contents and showed that Sankhya was
a relativistic theory.
426
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
11. Manifestation is self-similar and scale-invariant. This allows
the same formulation to be applied mathematically to define the
Universe, Galaxy, Sun, Nucleon, Electron or any particulate state
through one constant parameter. Physics, not being scale
invariant, needs at least three parameters and they are not
constants.
12. The fundamental field of space in Sankhya is mathematically
defined in Sanskrit as Aikanta (coherent or frozen as a single
entity), Athyantha (without end-perpetual), Atho (dynamic) and
Abhavath (unmanifest or balanced). Physics cannot define space
as it is classified as a vacuum.
13. The holographic mode of manifestation is proved
mathematically by showing that all phenomenon is bound
simultaneously by a spectrum of seven states and released
sequentially be one mode. The enigma in science, why sound,
light, particulate, molecular, atomic, nuclear and sub-particle
level have a periodicity spectrum, is resolved axiomatically.
The above parameters are some of the 'easy to understand'
aspects that differed from Physics. The mathematical aspects of
this theory are all encompassing, profound and complete in all
respects. The unified solutions are derived internally and
matched accurately to provide numerical answers to every
known and unknown stable parameter in Physics and
Cosmology. It has its own system of internal proof by matching
six alternate derivations to 25 decimal places. Sankhya enables
the tabulation of the entire Cosmic manifestation parameters
similar to any mathematical log table or almanac, with the
certainty there will be no phenomena found falling outside it.
This aspect is not possible in science today. How do we know
Sankhya is right? Differentiating the Sankhya-derived-mass of
the Universe by its smallest displacement leaves a precise single
unit-angular displacement value of the very first interaction.
Such accuracy is possible only in the realm of the divine!
Sankhya also gives equally accurate numerical solutions to both
scientific and holistic problems in phenomenon. The latter
process by itself is an extraordinary confirmation of Sankhyan
427
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
supremacy, for science has deliberately closed its eyes to it and
actually believes holistic perception does not exist!

An overview of Sankhya axiomatic principles in relation to
          Physics.

An outstanding feature of Sankhya is that no measured or
empirical inputs are required and the axiomatic theory starts by
manipulating the interactions between two objects in various
ways. Explaining briefly, Sankhya is based on counting only
oscillatory interactions as a ratio of a standard & axiomatic cycle
of 10 counts which are dimensionless, scale-invariant, coherent,
synchronous, reflection invariant and symmetric. Though space
has substantial qualities identified as the Purusha State, it cancels
out, as all measurements are relative comparisons through its
smallest unit the Moolaprakriti. So the Purusha's basic qualities
are not mathematically relevant in defining phenomenon. Any
Sankhya equation is always the algebraic sum of three Gunas as
Thaama (strong force), Raja (weak force and gravity) and
Sathwa (Electromagnetic force) or a ratio of Thaama / (Raja into
Sathwa.). Hence, all equations compare only three real
dimensions. There are three cyclic states to define time and are
governed by three principles, Simultaneity, Self-similarity and
Relativity and these have scalar (full force), tensor (stress
dependant force) and vector (time dependant force)
characteristics respectively. All of space is always in a dynamic
oscillatory state, at an axiomatic rate of 296575967 oscillations
per cycle of 10 oscillations or 299792458 oscillations at a metre
wavelength / second, which equals the velocity of light in
vacuum. The extraordinary fallout from deriving the holographic
oscillatory state is that it corrects velocity of light in Physics
relativistically by the solar orbital velocity in the Galaxy by the
factor 1.010845. Michelson & Morley detected this corrected
value but no one realised that it was relevant and thought the
experiments failed! Their results displayed a Doppler blue shift
428
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
in frequency. Hence, the frequency of light in the Solar system
cannot be constant. It automatically explains the cause of global
warming, which in fact led to the glacial catastrophe.
The Sankhya division of interactive states is shown only to
compare values in Physics. It is shown in a simple and
generalised way to make it understandable to non-scientists. The
reader's attention is drawn to this fact that in Physics all values
have been measured whereas in Sankhya all values are
calculated from axiomatic variations of the numeral two and that
principle was evolved more than 12000 rears ago. Despite that,
the difference is extremely small. All numbers are interactive
count rate per self-similar cycle. Where dimensional values are
given for comparison, the Metre-Kilogram-Second system is
used with unit time as 1.010845 seconds, due to the relativistic
shift from the solar orbital velocity. Values in Sankhya being
axiomatic derivations it can never change. (B=Billion. L=Light.
Y=Years. M = Mega. G = Giga). Numbers shown with like
10e+6 means it has 6 zeroes or the real value is a million counts.
Or 10e-6 means it has 6 decimal places or 1/1000000 th =
0.000001.
Sankhya Stable states. Equivalent in Physics shown in last
column.

Purusha     Andhatami      Max     Mass    in No equivalent
            shra state     Blackhole state    in Physics
Prakriti    Moha state     Max     Mass    in Hadron- quark
Mahat                      coherent state     domain
Prakriti    Maha           Max     Mass    in Hadron-
Sapta       Moha state     resonant state     Nuclear
                                              domain
Vikriti     Moha state     Min     Mass    in Lepton-
Mahat                      coherent state     Electron
Vikriti     Maha           Min     Mass    in Lepton-
Sapta       Moha state     resonant state     Neutrino
Moolapra    Vikaro         Min     Mass    in No Equivalent

429
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
kriti          state         transmigratory
                             state

Interactive qualities in a cycle (Not identified in Physics)

Principles       Yugapac-           Swabhava- Kramasa-
of Yuga          Simultaneity       Self-Similar
                                              Relativity
Yuga -Time       Instantaneous-     Resonant  Sequential-
Cycle            Spacelike          -transmigant
                                              Time like
Sargah Int.      Abhiman -(self     Tensor    Ahankar
creation         potential)         interaction
                                              (acceleration)
                                              .
Sargah-      Linga- Mass      Vector          Bhava-
Ext.creation                  interaction     Charge
Stable Mass particles compared to Planck's constant as energy
value

Name          counts     Physics    S’nkhy    GEV         Equiv:
                                    a
Purusha       10e+50     None       0.9149    5.133e+     None
                                    kgs       26 GEV
Prakriti      50-8       2.177e-    2.203e-   1.236e+     Planckm
Mahat         =10e+4     8 kgs      8 kgs     19 GEV      ass
              2
Prakriti      50-        1.672e-    1.675e-   0.93927     Proton
Sapta         25=10e     27 kgs     27 kgs    GEV
              +25
Vikriti       50-        9.109e-    9.11 e- 0.511         Electron
Mahat         28=10e     31 kgs     31 kgs  MEV
              +22
Vikriti        2π 10e+   6.626e-    6.7e-34   53.45       Planksc
Spectra       17         34         counts/   EV x 7      onstant.
                         (Joules/   sec)      (7          As
                         sec)                 neutrinos   energy
                                              )           unit
430
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Vikriti     50-       None     9.53e-    53.45        Neutrino
Sapta       33=10e             35 kgs    EV
            +17
Moolap 1 count        None     1.344e- 7.543 e- None
rakriti                        51 kgs    16 EV




431
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Comparison of axiomatic Sankhya and Einstein's cosmic
concepts.

Observations in   Sankhya-         Einstein      Error in
Universe          derived          -Estimated    Physics
Radius            19.26 B. L. Y    18.84 B. L. Y Time
Maximum           always                         cycle
Time cycle        30.64 B. Y       29.76 B. Y    Time
                  always                         cycle
Radius Today      12.8 B. L. Y     13.19 B. L. Y Time
                  always                         cycle
Hubble            6.283e+17        Megaparsec / Concept
expansion rate    Change      in   49000         of
(conceptual       Entropy     of   = 6.23e+17    Space
error)            space
Critical          3.63e-25         1.48e-26        Error 8 Pi
Closure           kgs/m3 always    kgs/m3
Density
Expanded          1.5e78        m3 3.83e+79 m3     Error 8 Pi
Envelope          always
Mass         of   7.8e +52 kgs.    5.68e+53 kgs    Error 7
Universe
Radius       of   5.99e +25m       1.236e +26m     Error 6/Pi
Universe




432
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Classification of Sankhya Holographic states in counts per cycle.
Class in Physics
Class          Thaama     Raja          Sathwa       Spectrum
               (Compres (Interactive (Expand)
               s)         )
Total          10e+28     Interactive 10e+22
counts         Entropy    Flux          radiation
10e+50
Coherence(                3       axis               Singulari
Thaamasic)                synchronis                 ty
                          ed
Andhatami 10e+8           28-8                       Blackhol
sra            Blackhole =10e+20                     e
Prakriti                  2       axis Coherent Planck
mahat                     Synchronis Limit           mass
                          ed
Moha           10e+10     20-                        Heavy
               Coherent   10=10e+10                  Quark
Mahamoha 10e+10           10 - 3                     Quark
               Resonant   (axis)=10e
                          +7
Interactive               Spherical                  Strong
balance                   Flux 3 axis
Prakriti       22           22+3=10e                 Hadronic
Sapta          +3=10e+2 +25
               5
(Rajasic)      Interlocke  Area Flux Resonant Bosonic
               d mode     2 axis        Limit
Abhiman                   8+3=10e+1                  Phase
                          1                          potential
Ahankar                   8-3=10e+5                  Phase
                                                     velocity
Linga                     9-3=10e+6                  Magnetic
Bhava                     9-                         Electric
                          3x2=10e+3
433
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
(Satwic)                   Radial flux Radiant       5.133e+2
                           1 axis      Limit         6 GEV
Vikriti        25-3        20+5=25     10e+5         1.236e+1
Mahat/Sapt =10e+ 22 25-3=22                          9 GEV
a
Tusti          10e+20      16+4=10e+ 10e+4           0.93927
internal                   20                        GEV
Vikaro         10e+16      3+13=10e+ 10e+3           0.511 M
                           16                        EV
Tusti          10e+13      16-         10e+5         53.45 EV
external                   3=10e+13                  x7
Siddhi         10e+8       13-         10e+8         53.45 EV
                           5=10e+8
Moolaprak 1                1           1             7.543 e-
riti                                                 16 EV

There are a host of related parameters that will be published later
in the author's book the 'Secrets of Sankhya' along with an
accurate scientific comparison that puts Sankhya on the pedestal
of 'Theory of Everything'. Coming to the major anomaly of the
9-cup loss during measurement, that started the train of
redemptive principles in Physics, Sankhya solved it most
elegantly. Recall that the blind man held the measuring cup for
one clock second, as he could not detect the completion of this
process. Sankhya principles axiomatically derived the smallest
measuring cup with the fastest filling rate of seven-cups-at-a-
time and stopped filling automatically because the potential
difference became zero! Then there was no loss at all for the
observer just counted the cups, as and when he took them. Now
his measurement would always tally, with what he took and what
was left, as he could never be faster unless he filled more than 7
cups at a time. The axiomatic spectral characteristics forbade
exceeding 7 states. In plain language, if one immersed the flattest
measuring cup just below the water level, it fulfilled those
conditions. Scientists should 'see' that process as the interactive

434
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
flux transfer rate in a blackhole or frozen hologram, confirming
Hawking's diction that its surface area can never decrease. The
proof (shown in table above) is that even the much larger
Planck's constant is also equal to seven Neutrino masses acting
simultaneously as a photon in a radiant spectrum!
Why did not scientists arrive at a similar conclusion? There were
two major reasons. Planck calculated the value of the quantum
by evaluating experiments that measured black body radiation to
simulate a balanced state. He evaluated radiant quanta in
transmigratory motion and concluded that was its final value.
According to Sankhya, it was the equivalent of the quanta in the
radiant mode of an interaction. But a quantum at "rest", the
Moolaprakriti, interacted in the simultaneous or frozen mode of a
blackhole and its value was very different. It was 10e+17 times
smaller or it was equal to one unit of change in the entropy of a
tiny blackhole that Sankhya has identified in every point in
space. Such a small unit of measure hidden in the Planck energy
scale caused the uncertainty in measurements, value of matter
density, particle wave duality and the enigmatic Planckian
fluctuations. It is indeed close to the Cosmological constant that
Einstein threw out as his blunder. Only when a fluctuation
exceeded a change in entropy equivalent to 10e+17 , it radiated a
photon. So this huge energy reservoir was hidden. Hubble
detected this delay and misread it as an expansion, for logically
the unit rate of change in entropy will take place only at the very
end of an interactive radiant cycle or 10e+17 metres away.
The numerical proof for this fact comes from the enigmatic 2.7
degree Kelvin background temperature in space that Peebles et al
recorded. The 10e+17 modes of change in entropy in a micro
blackhole in space logarithmically equals the natural log value of
e = 2.718 or the total sum of self-similar change in volume per
cycle. Mathematically it could never exceed 2.718. Hawking et
al exposed the entropy value but as a macro blackhole
phenomenon on a solar scale, for science was apparently
unaware of the concept of scale invariance and reflection
symmetry in a frozen hologram. So a tiny blackhole is no
435
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
different from a massive blackhole except for its self-similar
time cycle. As a simple example if ten people clap one after
another the ten sequentially related claps could be counted as 'ten
claps' but if all ten clapped simultaneously only 'one dense clap'
would be counted. It described charge and mass concepts
respectively in a holographic world. Secondly, the concept of
energy to define phenomenon in space was incorrect. The frozen
mass quanta or Moolaprakriti mass vibrating in the same
location of space as a coherent hologram had not been taken into
account. It provided the missing darkmatter-mass value (that
cosmologists were searching for) as Planckian fluctuations.
Another serious error had occurred in Physics. Interactions
always act in a straight line and that is an axiom. Hence, there
can be no curvature inherent in any fundamental interaction.
Only the loci of a sequence of interactions looked curved but
Reimann & Gauss geometry made it a fundamental characteristic
of space. Einstein used it as the basis for GR, which introduced
the erroneous axiomatic constant 8 Pi. Because of the foregoing
anomaly, Einstein desisted from defining a singularity. For his
problem was in defining the boundary of a point! Opening out 8
Pi through self-similar mathematics of the Sankhyan
Andhatamisra domain displayed the hidden entropy spectrum in
all its glory, as shown in the tables above. That concept was the
very stroke of a genius, Maharishi Kapila, the veritable
intellectual colossus of a preglacial era.
While laboratory instruments emulated all the five senses, it
could not imitate natures' own instrument the brain, which was
the core that maintained all forms of life. Sankhya proves that
the two halves of the cerebral system were a sensory signal
multiplexing instrument, Buddhi and Siddhi, based on the same
interactive Guna qualities of space. It was indeed the most
magnificent instrument to detect a null current or equi-potential
state. The brain, detecting the Moolaprakriti stress currents as an
imbalance in the potential of the two cerebral lobes, transmitted
its difference through the (eye of wisdom) pineal gland to the
Mooladhar or the lower spinal plexus that magnified it. It was an
436
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
experiencable signal, the much spoken about Kundalini current.
On receiving a human query, the two unbalanced cerebral lobes
went on a furious search till they reached the balancing point of a
null Moolaprakriti current. On receiving that answer, the human
gave a sigh of relief, demonstrating his utter satisfaction. That
process signified the symbolic 'OM' state. It was epitomised in
Patanjali's Yoga Suthras. All holistic phenomenon like ESP,
astrology, miracle and manifestation that seemed irrational was
due to the Moolaprakriti surge. It was caused by a phaseshift or
'twist in space' that had not yet become an identifiable Vritti or
photon. It resulted in a momentary scalar force whose origins
were not detectable. The unvarying shape of the lunar and solar
tidal envelope around the earth is a further witness to the
Moolaprakriti surge. Hence no instrument based on measuring
an energy differential could detect a change in the phase shift of
a potential. Aharanov and Bohm proved this point through
experiments. But every cerebral system based on genetic cells in
man, animal or plant could detect it, as a change in feeling, mood
or physical state. Backster proved this aspect through
experiments on plants and it is known as the 'Backster effect'.
Especially, more so for man, when he was in the null or balanced
Theta brain wave state of 3.75 cycles per second in deep
meditation. The Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's students bounced
'crossed-legged' along a laid out demonstration course, in full
view of the public, in the Theta or Siddhi-state. Ayurveda
operated through the same Guna laws but applied to 'genetic-
molecules' as Vata, Pitta and Kapha, synonymous with Sathwa,
Raja and Thaama states respectively.
As everything was affected by the ever-present stellar
Moolaprakriti stress transmigration currents astrology played an
important part in influencing the trends in all interactive aspect
of genetic matter. Maharishi Kapila, through his holographic
theory, gave a mathematical basis to understand one of the most
enigmatic concepts that pervade all religions. The concept of the
human soul and its consequence was the interaction of a resonant
hologram that acted according to the principles of the three
437
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Gunas. Epitomised as the (field theory) Kshetrajna of (actions)
Karma in the Bhagavadgita, it followed the same axiomatic laws
of a Vritti or photon but in its own time cycle. Dr. Moody had
published accounts of 'near-death-experiences' of over 2000
people that were nothing but a refusal of such wandering
holograms to disintegrate on those occasions. Sri Krishna tells
Arjuna the same fact that those he hesitated to slay were already
dead as their holograms had lived out its time then! The Hughes
Drever experiments did detect the Moolaprakriti stress
transmigration current in space but was declared an instrument
noise by wise scientists. Such a current removed the need to
propound the Principle of Equivalence, as there was only one
stress current in space. It acted as gravitation, electromagnetic,
weak, strong forces or as phase-shifts in the quark and blackhole
domains, depending on cycle time. The foregoing theory could
never, repeat never, have come from even today's citadels of
Physics and Cosmology, let alone postglacial man, unless one
resurrected the 'Vedic divine origin' aspect again. In this
extraordinary background, the Lokmanya's hypothesis based on
meticulous research becomes very relevant.
  As pointed out earlier, the scientific peerdom will be the one
major obstacle to a smooth and effective transfer of this
axiomatic science of Dharma to the public domain. Because
current Physics and Cosmology will be reluctant to switch over
to a holographic, dimensionless, scale-invariant, reflection-
invariant theory, in a space that is certainly not a vacuum.
Moreover introducing axiomatic principles into the laboratory
domain will be like setting the cat among the pigeons. That
would automatically remove the principles that glossed over
anomalies and place theoretical science on the back burner. An
undesirable synthesis, for the left-brain 'rationalists' of science,
would be the need to work with so called right brain
'irrationalists'. For in this axiomatic and holistic science the
invisible part of space takes on an unimaginable share of
importance. Then experts in handling psychokinetic
phenomenon like the Sathya Saibaba or Uri geller could help
438
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
holistic science quantum leap into new frontiers. For instance, as
early as 1930, both Annie Beasant and Leadbeater published
accurate sketches, in minute detail, of 92 atomic elements in the
periodic table by 'seeing them visually' in a meditative state. But
nobody believed it for 50 years till Dr. Phillips confirmed it his
book recently. Over a period of years, Peter Hurkos helped the
Dutch police to solve complex crimes through clairvoyant
vision. The holographic background gives a new twist to
astrology, much against the so-called rationalistic view. It affects
every phase of predicting organic or inorganic phenomena, like
earthquakes, stratospheric twitching, cosmic ray showers and a
host of things too large to mention here. And that is because the
concept of Gravity as a force is too large a tool to detect the
microscopic Moolaprakriti rumblings in the same gravitational
field. In fact, numerous people have reported experiencing
headaches before an earthquake. Animal and birds have been
seen to flee the area before such an event. Instead of
instrumentally imitating, the cerebral functions, a new cadre of
holistic scientists, may have to evolve in order to attain speedy
results, as developments in this area need not be of the existing
pattern at all.
For instance the entire information technology spectrum can
switch over to an organic, genetic recombinant 'hardware' that
grows, maintains and renews like any living system, operating
on self generated low voltage organic D.C. power systems. It
could also do parallel processing of information when
demanded. There could be a revolution in power generation
concepts through the production of 'fuel-less-power' direct from
space. For, the hidden coherent gravitation field itself is capable
of yielding unlimited supply of both electrical and mechanical
power as elucidated through Sankhya principles. The work of the
scientific genius Tesla, is a case to point, in that area of field-
energy mechanics. Next, the mechanism for initiating cold fusion
will be made easy when scientists understand the new Sankhya
principle of 'simultaneity', the governing theory for all dynamic
coherent states. There is no evidence, in Physics even today, of a
439
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
self-similar mathematics regime that operates in the
'simultaneous interactive' regions with precision. Hawking, in
one of his lectures bemoaned the inadequacy of the Schroedinger
equation (to solve blackhole problems), the only simple
mathematical tool available in this spectrum.
The principle of self-similarity, embodied in the three Gunas, is
symbolically represented by a bow. Forces of compression in the
arch as a vector and tension in the string as a tensor are in
balance simultaneously. When an arrow was shot it represented a
scalar force and what the Schroedinger equation calculated was
the depth of penetration in the target! No doubt Hawking
lamented its limitations for Maharishi Kapila's Moolaprakriti
measured the vibrating rate of the string before the arrow was
shot! Arjuna, the archer, was a master of the symbolic Gunas in
the Gita, while Sri Krishna was the ultimate architect of the
unified science of Dharma in the Universe. The 69th Suthra states
that Sankhya is a secret or coded creation and apparently not
meant for open circulation. Hence, there is the danger that, while
such scientific development could flourish in the benign
countries, misuse of fundamental knowledge in the hands of
unscrupulous groups could produce disastrous effects. For the
key to fusion energy, genetic recombinant technology, quantum
information-decoherence-entanglement-avalanche phenomenon
and ESP subliminal-information-transfer, are areas, among
countless other possibilities, that could make the earth a veritable
hell to live in if misused by mindless rulers.
Finally, the creation of Sankhyayoga by Maharishi Kapila is
invaluable on three counts. Sankhya unified the two concepts of
science and religion by demonstrating its equivalence through
axiomatic laws.
Accepting the fact that cosmic laws must remain the same with
or without an observer, every human being should have been
able to understand it in an identical way. But driven by their
innate genetic Guna-qualities (shown below) people polarised
broadly into two groups with rationalistic (scientific) and holistic
(religious) preferences. The prevailing view was that science,
440
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
based on a sequential logic starting from an empirical source-
level, described phenomena effectively. However, scientists
rationalised that theistic principles, on the other hand, pre-
empted the scientific analytical process by identifying a timeless
and powerful creator as the initiating cause. Supporters of
religious dogma argued that scientific analysis was matter-
oriented, temporal and ignored the eternal aspects of reality. But
Maharishi Kapila's theory elegantly pointed out that an arbitrary
source-level in science or the enigmatically powerful creator in
religion could both be conceptually replaced by an axiomatic
source-law of nature called Dharma. Axioms are not created for
they are always there as a pure relationship of two numerical
variables. As is well known axioms cannot be disproved and are
therefore valid eternally to all humanity. This fact automatically
endowed it with the mantle of divinity and so it logically
satisfied the fundamental precepts of eternity in religion. The
goal of scientists too has always been to base scientific theories
on axioms, to eliminate the uncertainty at its source-level. The
intellectual magnificence of Maharishi Kapila showed through
exquisite mathematics that this very axiomatic source had the
power of the most powerful creator that man or any observer
could ever conceptualise. Since Sankhya derived the ultimate
Purusha state purely through axioms, where was the reason for
science and religion to differ? For all their core, requirements of
a powerful, eternal and logical source were fulfilled beyond all
human expectations (Physics has yet to discover the Purusha
state of coherent power. Its value is shown in the tables above).
2. Maharishi Kapila unified the two contentious concepts of
materiality and spirituality by demonstrating through precise
mathematics that all manifestation was a hologram or the very
embodiment of spirituality. He underscored the fact that one
cannot have spirituous vibrations without interactive matter,
which was the core-Guna-theme in the Bhagavadgita.
The 50 verses in chapter 13 in the Bhagavadgita gave an
exhaustive pedagogic explanation of the field concept or Kshetra
comprising the Brahmanda or field of cosmic space. Maharishi
441
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Kapila showed unequivocally that what an observer detected was
only a vibration from an interaction between two objects. Present
day Physics too has confirmed that everything in this Universe is
composed of vibratory or oscillatory components, be it solid or
evanescent. Through the three Guna interactive modes
(explained earlier), Sankhya shows (through Suthras 3 and 46)
with utmost numerical clarity that the solid, massive and static
Purusha state of ultimate power is only composed of the lightest
Moolaprakriti vibratory state. But there are 10 50 Moolaprakriti
units (shown in the table above) interacting simultaneously in the
Purusha state. That unimaginable number acting simultaneously
contributes to the impression of solidity. The field of molecules
we call air can be blown away easily by us but the same air in a
tornado blows away our very homes, displaying a hidden factor
of solidity that could never have been conceptualised. It is just
the simple molecule of air acting simultaneously as a group.
Sankhya mathematics shows that tornado represents a moving
hologram called Vritti. The Purusha and the Moolaprakriti are
the same moving holograms albeit of different values. So is the
Proton, Electron, Neutrino, Sun, Moon, Galaxy, the human
being, one has only to name it. The epitome of the concept of
spirituality is the field or Kshetra that forms the human soul, the
very opposite of the common view of 'materiality' in a matter
dominated world. But the human soul is nothing else but a
Moolaprakriti hologram, the very Kshetrajna or the 'knower of
the field' that Sri Krishna explains to Arjuna in the
Bhagavadgita. Then where is the difference between the so
called matter composed of electrons and protons of 10 27
Moolaprakriti units and the spirituous soul of a human being
containing the same number of those fundamental holograms?
Only a heckler will fail to see the identical nature of the two
states of manifestation. That is why Arjuna is told to be without
the three Gunas in order to understand the true nature of
phenomenon. Because the Guna or innate genetic quality of an
individual, clouds his ability to 'see through' the confusing
variety of manifestation, that hides the real nature of an event. Or
442
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
in simple words don the robe of objectivity to see the woods for
the trees. Physics too suffers from the same malady for in
naming the Planck's constant as an 'unit' of energy they had
unwittingly collared the very holographic tornado in its nascent
state. One hopes that Maharishi Kapila's unification paradigm
would end the needless divide between Physics and holistic
science or the materialistic science and spiritualistic religion. Its
time that man realised, by uniting the two pseudo-concepts,
natural law will allow him to really experience the bounties of
this magnificent universe in the easiest possible manner.
    3. In conclusion, he demonstrated the oneness in the material
underpinnings of Reality with the spiritual supremacy of a God
concept, as just two complementary aspects of a contemplative
human mind. Or the concept of God and the Cosmos being
inseparable in the Vedas, it was an Omnipresent, Omnipotent
and Omniscient state.
The Visvarupa state in the 11th. chapter of the Bhagavadgita is a
pedagogic expose of the equality of the concept of God and the
Universe in symbolic terms. Pedagogic definitions are open to
misinterpretation. Mere numerical identification, though precise,
is again open to being labelled an absolute, which has no
relevance in a relativistic world. But numerical axioms are a
relational truism based on the natural proportionality of numbers
that remain true eternally. As shown earlier, the first interaction
can only take place between two objects and can only occur in
three modes. Out of myriad possibilities, Sankhya derived one
axiom that described the three Guna modes of interaction which
was correct under all variations and for all times. It encompassed
the law of self-similarity when two or more modes of action
occurred simultaneously. Recall the earlier example of the bow.
Astoundingly through that one self-similar Guna law, Sankhya
theorems derived all aspects of universal manifestation and the
small-tabulated example shown above is a witness to its
profound depth. Maharishi Kapila proved mathematically that
one axiomatic law of Dharma operated eternally, self-organised
and self-controlled, thus enshrouding it with the indelible mark
443
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of divinity. It truly described a Universe beyond humanity. It
needed no human beings to understand Cosmic physics. Viewing
it objectively it must be so. It is indeed an axiom.
Maharishi Kapila was only needed to tell other human beings
what that exotic law was for he understood it. But why was that
necessary? Could not others too do what he did? They too could
have and that was the theme in the Bhagavadgita. It was just one
simple message -be without the Gunas. But how could a human
being be without the Gunas unless he knew what it was and that
it was there in the first place. Even after 400 years of dedicated
modern scientific investigation Physics had not even suspected
its existence, let alone discover and use it. Then how can man?
That was the theme of Maharishi Kapila's Sankhyayoga where
he laid bare the meditative Siddhi process operating in the Guna
mode (through Suthras 4,5 and 6) that was later elaborated by
Maharishi Patanjali. Despite this caveat, man, driven by innate
feelings of dissatisfaction, sought the very same goal that
Maharishi Kapila did. But in another way. Man's dissatisfaction
came from within him. To a fundamental query like 'who am I' to
his left cerebral lobe with sequential analytical abilities, the right
cerebral lobe awaited its reply. It kept on processing that reply in
the holistic simultaneous mode till it was satisfied. While in the
case of Maharishi Kapila, it stopped and he created
Sankhyayoga, but for all of us lesser mortals, it still kept seeking
an answer. On being diverted to do its essential chores, the right
cerebral lobe cried a temporary halt and holistically named the
Creator as the cause of 'who he was'. Changing this mindset
needed a paradigm shift towards a purely intellectual objectivity,
wherein all past mental conditioning had to be jettisoned
ruthlessly, even if temporarily. The meditative Siddhi process
did just that and increased the chances of attaining a satisfactory
answer. While the dichotomy continued, the contemplative
search too continued to support the need for a separate Creator to
create an Omnipresent Reality. When would it end?
The intellectual greatness of Maharishi Kapila lay in his
demonstration of an extraordinary fact, through the opening
444
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Suthra. Wherever manifestation dissolved by attaining a coherent
(hence restful) state, what was left was the Aikanta-Athyantha-
Atho-Abhavath state or the Coherent, Eternal, Dynamic but
Unmanifest state of Brahmanda, the fundamental field of cosmic
space. Its perfection lay in the fact that this process applied to
any fundamental field for there was only one Guna law for all
such fields. Hence, the cerebral field too, if allowed to attain its
fundamental state, was left in the Aikanta-Athyantha-Atho-
Abhavath state. It was an axiomatic Siddhi state where the left
and right cerebral halves balanced perfectly because the Gunas
disappeared into its single Moolaprakriti transmigration state. It
was at last without the Gunas. The concept of Creator and the
Reality dissolved into each other and what was left was only an
extraordinary experience of that fundamental field of Brahmanda
in the Aikanta-Athyantha-Atho-Abhavath state. The remnant
state of utter and deep satisfaction helped to change the mindset
in time. Having demonstrated that the conceptual difference
between the Creator and the permanent Reality actually merged
into one another, that fundamental state could then be described
objectively only as an Omnipresent, Omnipotent and Omniscient
state. Or Brahmanda, the field of Cosmic space. Was there any
uncertainty? None except in the human mind that lacked the
knowledge to overcome it. Can we quantify the error factor that
a human mind must accept? Yes, it is just one Moolaprakriti
transmigration rate for 1/10 of a second. Can we sum up the gift
that the intellectual colossus, Maharishi Kapila, gave to
humanity? What could be greater than numerically specifying
THAT extraordinary state of REALITY in unequivocal terms for
mankind so that he learns that there is no such a thing as
UNCERTAINTY in that state in the Universe.




445
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

        Appendix 3: The Siddhi Meditative process.

                             SIDDHI

(The ideal, scientific, non-religious, process to maximize human
                       life energy potential )

         Sankhya theory was derived axiomatically by Maharishi
Kapilla. He expounded the physics of universal phenomenon
through a simple but advanced mathematical system. It forms the
core of the Bhagavadgita. In it, the scientific principles from
Sankhya are conveyed to us through a series of dialogues
between two idealized personalities. The Bhagavadgita in turn
formed the core of the Mahabharata and provided the ideal
backdrop. Its complexity had the inbuilt potential to present
every aspect of phenomena in a visual way. In ancient times,
there was no better medium than dramatisation to spread
important knowledge. The dramatised version of the
Mahabharata is known the world over but Sankhya, its core, has
not even been heard of by a majority of Indians.
         Yoga Sutras, based on Sankhya principles, was
composed by Maharishi Patanjali. He laid down a system of
practices by which we could attain the ideal state of living. The
Yoga Sutras emphasized that the key to it was in organizing and
using human-life-energy in the correct way. The perfect but
simplest method lay in attaining a relaxed and harmonious state
called Siddhi in Sankhya. Based on fundamental scientific
principles, it was not only an easy and definite process but it was
also the quickest in achieving results. It is natures own way.
         The brilliance of Maharishi Kapilla laid threadbare the
intricacies of the gravitational force in Sankhya and the equally
brilliant Maharishi Patanjali used its effects to prescribe a
method of maximizing our life energy potential, in the shortest
time. I would like to specially emphasise here, that the process of
deriving that knowledge is unparalleled in our history of
446
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
scientific progress, for these principles are absent in current
physics. We should indeed be forever beholden to these two
intellectuals, for providing this unique method of attaining
excellence in our living process, by maximising our life energy
potential with utmost ease, comfort and certainty. Before we can
learn and practice this exotic process, it is essential to
understand the few preliminary facts given below.
         A summary of the Yoga Sutra led to the following three
important principles.
1) 'Submit to the resonant field in coherent space'.
2) 'The seating posture provides the quickest and easiest way to
Siddhi.’.
3) 'The seating posture must be steady and comfortable'.
         As we see, the emphasis is on ease and comfort in
sitting, in a particular way. However, to understand its
connection with the resonant state of space, we need a brief
explanation of the qualities of space

A brief explanation of the Sankhya view of space :
          The characteristics of space has been accurately
identified and defined numerically in Sankhya theory. Leaving
its mathematical definitions aside in this write up, we can
describe its observed qualities (as given below) which, can be
taken as an axiomatic base. It will enable us understand how and
why we should submit to its resonant state.
a.) It is in a coherent state. Therefore it presents a unified and
homogeneous state of existence.
b.) It exists continuously. It acts as a continuum and therefore
seems to exist permanently.
c.) It is amorphous and flexible. It therefore changes and
interacts dynamically.
d.) It is observed to be in a passive state normally. It therefore
seems un-manifest and un-detectable.
     When any two adjacent objects interact, it must collide,
rebound and separate. This is a cycle of three phases in an
interaction. Space is formed by a sea of fundamental components
447
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
called ‘Moolaprakriti’, in Sankhya. When each of these units
interact with adjacent ones, the cyclic interactions continue
endlessly and follows a unique and axiomatic law. Over a period
of time, the interactions organize into harmonious and balanced
groups of resonant vibrations. All the phenomena we witness are
just such groups in various degrees of organised states. A human
being (and every other thing too) can be seen simply as a very
highly organized bundle of Moolaprakritis. It cannot be anything
other than a Moolaprakriti, but this bundle is called a Purusha
state, to identify it as a separate unit. . Scientifically speaking,
such an organized group of cyclic vibrations form a holographic
state. It lays the foundation for the concept of spirituality or the
amorphous state of all existence. Quantum theory in current
physics has concepts similar to Sankhya but without the latter’s
advanced mathematical structure.
     We (and all other things too) are always immersed in this
resonant sea of vibrations. In other words, we are continuously in
and covered by a sea of energy. Seems ideal but the rub is in the
‘states’ of energy. While space is in a coherent or apparently
passive state, we are continuously in an active or manifest state.
If we want to absorb this energy we must reverse our state and
reach the same coherent or passive level. Maharishi Patanjali
provided a method using, the most fundamental scientific
parameter in the universe, the force of gravity. The key to
achieving success in any walk of life lies in understanding what
we are going to do. Briefly, we must understand a simple
phenomenon called simultaneity or simultaneous action, which
forms the underlying cause of gravitation and the process of
Siddhi.
          The simplest way to understand simultaneous activity is
to count claps from a number of people. A clap provides an
easily understandable model of an interaction that creates
vibrations. If ten people clap once, one after another, the counts
are ten. Whereas, if all clap once exactly at the same instant, then
the detectable count would be just one. The significant factor to
note is that nine counts vanish. The nine hidden claps form the
448
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
simultaneous state of activity. All the nine hidden claps act
simultaneously with the one countable clap, as one coherent
clap. Hence, simultaneous activity creates coherent states that act
as a single unit. These are the states that provide the hidden
potential behind any activity in our existence.
         The vanishing count creates a serious imbalance within a
harmonious or balanced state. Imagine ten people facing ten
others opposite them and blocking their path. Suddenly, if nine
from the opposite side regroup in a line behind one of their own,
nine of the ten people could easily walk through to the other
side, for their paths would be free. Again we see that though 20
people were there in both phases, the state of their organisation
created an unbalance. Just by re-organising, nine of them were
able to drift or gravitate towards the centre of the opposing
group. Maharishi Patanjali prescribed a simple method of sitting
comfortably to achieve the same effect. Another analogy would
make that point clear. Imagine a porous pot immersed in water.
If you keep shaking it all the time very little water would seep
into the pot. On the other hand, if you let the pot remain
absolutely still, water from all the sides would simultaneously
seep into the pot and fill it in the shortest time. Recalling that we
in effect are a bundle of Moolaprakritis, just like a porous pot,
we must learn to sit very still indeed to absorb from the resonant
sea of energy around us. We shall see next, why the seating
posture is so vital to attaining the Siddhi state.

    The reason for the critical importance of the sitting posture
         The human body balances itself constantly and
continuously against the stresses created by the ubiquitous
gravitational force. There is not a moment in our lives when we
are free from the effects of gravity but we have learnt to ignore
this aspect completely. All the cells in the entire body are in a
constant state of activity to attain an internally comfortable and
balanced state. In fact, a significant portion of our life energy
potential is not only used up in this activity but that state
prevents the transfer of energy as potential, from the resonant sea
449
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
of energy we are immersed in. As explained earlier, the only way
to initiate the transfer lay in attaining a coherent state. That is,
the state in which all the internal activities synchronised into a
simultaneously active state. Our normal view and understanding
of phenomena would give us the impression that it would be
impossible.
          We know from physics that the gravitational force acts
on the centre of bodies or masses. Any object can be balanced,
only if its mid position, called the centre of gravity, falls
vertically in line with the point on which it is resting. In other
words, as long as the centre of gravity of a body remains
vertically in line with its resting point it remains in a stable state.
It means that in order to maintain balance, one has only to
correct that miniscule and almost imaginary position of the
centre of gravity within the body. It can be shown
mathematically that in the balanced state the corrective effort
needed to maintain it, becomes relatively miniscule. In that state
the human body acts in a coherent manner in which all the cells
seem to interact simultaneously with its centre of gravity. That
significantly removes the need for energy to balance the internal
stresses and our body attains a state of balance in which we feel
rested and comfortable. In that coherent condition, the body’s
life energy potential equalizes with that of the resonant sea we
are immersed in. Balancing of energy potentials is a physical law
of nature and takes place by itself, when the right conditions are
maintained. As we all know there is no shield to stop the
gravitational potential from acting on all matter.

                         The sitting posture
         To attain and maintain a balanced state the torso must be
kept erect in a vertical position. To maintain a relaxed state one
must sit. We think we can sit straight and upright but it cannot be
done unless we consciously make a correction to compensate for
the curve of the spinal column. The human spinal column is
arched near the small of the back. If we are to keep the torso
vertical, in a relaxed state, we must sit on a sloping seat that
450
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
compensates for the spinal curve. Since sitting on a flat seat
needs stressful effort to keep the torso vertical, it cannot help us
to attain the Siddhi state. Kneeling, sitting on ones haunches are
stressful & painful postures. The ideal position is shown in the
sketch below. A cloth, blanket, towel etc rolled up to the right
diameter to suit each individual’s physical form, gives the
correct seating angle to maintain the stable, vertical posture.

         Though the method of maintaining the seating angle has
come from the original authors, we can follow any sitting
preference, provided the need for absolute comfort in a vertical
posture is not overlooked. There is scientific evidence, given at
the end of this write-up that shows the window for the onset of
the Siddhi state is extremely precise. The positive aspect
however is certain, for under the correct conditions, the onset of
the Siddhi state cannot be stopped. That is, if one sits at the
correct angle, in a bolt-upright posture and allows oneself to
reach an absolutely relaxed and comfortable state, one must
reach the Siddhi state. If one tends to fall asleep the loss of
balance would certainly awaken the individual. In the extremely
relaxed state one would even renounce the initiative to think.
         When seated correctly on the edge of the rolled up cloth,
your upper part of the body will be in a very balanced position.
Because of the finely balanced and relaxed state you may
experience a tendency to rock back and forth slightly. Its normal
but you can ignore it. In that balanced and extremely relaxed
state the pulsing of the femoral artery at the groin initiates the
rocking motion, in step with its pulse rate. One can ignore it and
allow the Siddhi state to set in.
         In Siddhi one will lose all sense of the passage of time.
That is the hallmark of a coherent and simultaneously interactive
state. During that period and (repeat) only during that period the
equalisation of the potential energy from the resonant space is
completed. Since it is a mechanical process that follows the same
unique natural law of the gravitational field too, the Siddhi state
ends in 21 minutes. On completing a perfect Siddhi cycle you
451
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
would find that 21 minutes would have passed but your own
awareness may give you the feeling that it was just a couple of
minutes.
         Siddhi is the silent, mechanical and invincible process
that enriches life energy by equalizing with potential of the
resonant field of space we live in. Abundance of life energy
allows one to maximize ones effort to overcome all problems in
life. The full inner potential guides the genetic ensemble to reach
its maximum efficiency in the way it wants to. The higher level
of life-energy prevents one from becoming tired quickly and
encourages the individual to seek alternatives confidently. It
leads to flexibility in thinking and intelligent use of nature’s
laws.
         Though the Sankhya theory covers all these aspects with
accurate mathematical values, I will only briefly touch on the
scientific evidence available freely in the public domain.
Medical research has established by brainwave monitoring that
there are four states. Beta state, identified as the normally active
one, has shown that brainwave frequencies vary between 15 and
25 cycles per second (cps). Alpha state, connected to the relaxed
state of an individual, shows a range between 7 and 15. The
Theta state forms the transition phase between sleep and
relaxation, ranging from 3 to 7 cps. The Delta state, involving
the sleep phase, shows a range below 3 cps. However, at 3.75
cycles in the Theta state, a remarkable synchrony between the
left and right brain hemispheres have been recorded on
individuals in deeply meditative states. The brainwave phase and
frequency have been shown to merge or synchronise in perfect
step. Along with it a variety of important changes in
physiological parameters have also been recorded. Since those
ranges and limits have exceeded medically expected levels, such
phenomena have remained without any substantiation from
currently understood physics principles.
         It is common knowledge that satellites circle the earth in
84 minutes. A circle contains 4 phases of 90 degrees each. At
each change of phase the direction too changes. When the phase
452
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
or direction changes completely the simultaneous state of any
activity is re-arranged into a new setup. Therefore in 21 minutes
the phase changes and the Siddhi state, being primarily a process
of equalizing potentials, also breaks up.
         Sankhya theory has established that simultaneous
activity creates the coherent state which defines the energy
potential. The Earth’s circumference is about 40 million meters
and the transmission velocity of the gravitational and
electromagnetic field is 300 million meters per second. It gives
the range of variation of the simultaneous state as 1 to 7.5 times
a second. The median is half 7.5 = 3.75 cps. Is it a coincidence
that the Earths energy potential varies exactly at the same rate as
the Theta state? How did Maharishi Patanjali know that this
synchrony would create the most exotic human state called
Siddhi? The answer lies in Sankhya, which derives the state in
which an harmonic oscillatory state is maintained perpetually if
the ratio of exchange approaches a rate of 3.571 oscillations per
cycle and it also proves with exquisite mathematics that all of
space is always in that state.




453
          Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                       Fig. Seating Angle.Note:




ROLL OF CLOTH TO
ADJUST  ANGLE. OF
SITTING




    As Instructions:

            Choose a quite, pleasant and clean room or area to attain
    the Siddhi state.
    Roll up a thick towel or thick cloth into a tight roll of about 7 or
    8 inches in diameter. Or you may adjust the roll to attain the
    454
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
maximum comfort Sit on the edge of this roll, with your legs
crossed or placed in any comfortable position on the floor or a
stable platform.
         Your spine and torso should be kept upright. By sitting
on the roll you will be able to maintain an erect and vertical
posture but the seat and legs will form a slight angle with the
floor. The seating angle compensates for the arch in the back and
yet enables one to keep the spine and torso in an upright
position. If you cannot bend your leg, sit in exactly the same way
but on an adequately raised step or platform so that you can drop
your feet and remain in that posture in absolute comfort.
         When seated correctly on the edge of the rolled up cloth,
your upper part of the body will be in a very balanced position.
Because of the finely balanced and relaxed state you may
experience a tendency to rock back and forth slightly. Its normal
but you can ignore it. Allow yourself to drift into a totally
relaxed state. As the relaxation level increases you will even
renounce the initiative to think.
You may not be aware when you enter the Siddhi state so it’s
best to let everything happen on its own. In a similar way, we
cannot know when exactly we fall asleep. You cannot fall asleep
in that posture for on losing your balance, you will wake up.
You will naturally come out of this state in about 20 minutes.
But your awareness of the passage of time may give you the
impression that only a few minutes have passed. The positive
realisation that time has been lost or compressed is the hallmark
of the potential equalisation process.




455
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




456
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

              Appendix 4: Sankhya And Einstein

Ref: ‘Meaning of Relativity’ Indian Edition 1965. (Sixth edition
revised 1956-reprint 1960)

     There’s a mythical story circulated by ancient intellectuals
which goes like this: To the question where does the earth rest in
space one ethnic replied it was on the back of a giant tortoise. It
was promptly countered by another contemporary that the
tortoise was too small so it had to be a giant whale and despite
numerous intellectuals joining the philosophical fray no
acceptable answer to end this quest was found. Sad to say but
that query is still unanswered to date. The tenor of the humour
one saw in these ancient answers would be no different from
those views expressed by our contemporary intellectuals.
 In Appendix 2, page 134 of the above referred edition, Einstein
has raised a query and answered it as follows: “What
innovations in the post-Newtonian development of the
foundation of physics have made it possible to overcome the
inertial system? First of all, it was the introduction of the field
concept by, and subsequently to, the theory of electromagnetism
of Faraday and Maxwell, or to be more precise , the introduction
of the field as an independent, not further reducible fundamental
concept”. Einstein deftly refrained (on page 3) from analysing
the Galilean tortoise of points forming the independent-field-
continuum, and glossed over the Newtonian whale called inertial
systems, to adopt the undefined Faraday-Maxwell substitute of a
field.
The irony of this process is particularly evident when one
realises that there is still no precise mathematical definition of
what a field in physics really means today (2004), yet Einstein
proceeded to fill the paucity in logical continuity by introducing
the infinitesimal displacement-field as a workable mathematical
entity, without a real and physical meaning.

457
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Here it is worth emphasising the Sankhya axiomatic logic that,
intellectually and physically, it is impossible to deal with
‘nothing’. Hence ‘nothing or empty space’ must be dealt with as
a real ‘some-thing’ and the field as a 'substantial element' of
space. Another axiom that gives the clue to deriving a perfect
theory is the concept of looking at cosmic space as though it
were populated with cubes, however small , for it forms the
simplest mathematical expression to describe the Universe in
terms of elemental components, regardless of how large the
cosmos may be. Further, the moment the description of a unit of
anything, say even a Universe, is categorised as one, then it
demands a mathematical anzats that defines its singular status
through the concept of simultaneity, (which does not exist in
physics today) because the entire ensemble acts together
simultaneously.
If this singularity, whether it be a Universe, Galaxy, stellar or
planetary body, can be represented by any numerical quantity,
then it axiomatically provides its boundary or limiting condition
by the reciprocal of that value, for it forms the unit base. The
entire mathematical process conceptually and actually reduces to
a mere process of counting. An axiomatic approach to solving
problems has an extremely precise principle as a corollary. It is
the principle of self similarity that derives all its laws from
within itself and is not dependant on any external inputs. Putting
it succinctly, either such a theory works or it does not.
Such axiomatic logic loops back to synchronise with its starting
proposition with just six equations to provide an identical, equal
and exact numerical value as the correct answer to a problem. It
has the extraordinary power of supplying its own proof by the
six redundant equations. If the answers to these six equations are
different and inexact then it cannot be the theory and must be
rejected. Einstein has himself dealt with this aspect in appendix
II as the strength of equations. The outstanding achievement of
Sankhya logic is that it derives an axiomatic basis for every point
in space being the permanent and continuous source of
maximum power by naturally functioning as a tiny blackhole-
458
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
quantum, the laws of which are an exact replica of the largest
Blackhole, the Universe.
Such symmetry, on its own merits, is an admirable quality that
mathematicians dream of but seldom realise in reality. Not
withstanding the power of mathematics, scientific analysis must
also be unequivocally bound to such rigorous human logic, that
it is deemed to be of an axiomatic nature and it should only be
supported by mathematical calculations to maintain precision
and logical continuity.
Mathematical expressions can be seen as a concise means of
transmitting knowledge, as formulations, devoid of ambiguities.
Any mathematical process by itself is not based on absolute logic
but forms a tool to augment logical explanations, which again
depends on the skill of the investigator to find ways to use it
meaningfully. Unfortunately there exists a section of intellectual
opinion today that expect the un-understandable aspects of
nature to be made meaningful through an iterative and
mechanical application of advanced mathematical procedures.
But the past history of scientific development shows it cannot
replace the intuitive logic exposed by human innovative
intelligence. Einsteins’s theory of General Relativity is a case to
point.
     A considered analysis of Einstein’s views on gravitational
physics, ispPresented in this paper, as an equivalent comparison
to the concepts elucidated by Maharishi Kapila in Sankhya. The
question, why should one compare only Einstein’s theory with
Sankhya, can be answered by the fact that General and Special
Relativity still remain the number ‘one’ in physics and
cosmology. Secondly the intellectual basis and content of
relativity is    logical and its foundation is based on an
acknowledged deficiency arising out of the experimental failure
(Michelson-Morley experiments) to detect and define space. Till
then, however, the prevailing scientific opinion supported the
view that space had real properties, similar to Sankhyan
thinking. Hence any argument for an alternate theory can be
confined to analysing these primary inadequacies and bridging
459
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the gap in concept & theory then becomes a complementary
effort rather than an exercise in confrontation.
Sankhya principles do not violate any aspect of science. It
compliments it by providing the means to decipher the hidden
regimes. The current variant theories under the caption “String”,
“Super-symmetry”, “GUT” & etc., are all covered in Sankhya as
an integral part of its normal evolution through its self-similar
and scale-invariant axiomatic mathematical logic. Hence no
effort has been made to compare these newer theories explicitly
and in any case the essence of these theories are not really
different from the acknowledged relativistic concepts, except for
the difference in its mathematical procedures and experimental
conformity.
Einstein, in Appendix 2 under ‘General Remarks’ has given his
sincere and deeply thought out rationale why he considered his
approach to relativistic theory as the only possible way to avoid
field theoretic complications leading to more complex equations.
He outlines the possible variations like increasing the number of
dimensions of the continuum, adding vector fields to the existing
displacement tensor field and involving equations with higher
orders of differentiation. But he felt neither physical nor
empirical reasons existed that compelled one to take these steps.
However, he made the point, that as of then, any field theory was
not completely determined by the system of field equations. He
raised the question that should one admit the appearance of
singularities which necessarily leads to postulating its boundary
conditions. He did not think it was reasonable to include such
postulates in a continuum theory, as it would be far too vague; as
also the field equations would not hold for such conceptual
points. Again such an inclusion, he demonstrated through a
numerical example, would be an approximation at best and
would strictly form an inaccurate solution in space that is free of
singularities.
Einstein voiced the need for an improvement in mathematical
methods, which might help such an approach. He was also
critical of the need to modify a field theory into a statistical
460
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
theory of probabilities through ‘quantisation’ as a first step,
which he felt was an effort to represent a non linear process by a
linear method. He further adds that one can give good reasons
why reality cannot at all be represented by a continuous field. He
also stated that the quantisation phenomenon implied with
certainty that finite system of finite energy can be completely
described by a finite set of numbers (quantum numbers).
Hence, in the very last sentence he states “This does not seem to
be in accordance with a continuum theory and must lead to an
attempt to find a purely algebraic theory for the description of
reality. But nobody knows how to obtain the basis of such a
theory.”
It is uncanny that his final ‘view-in-despair’ seems to have been
tailored exactly to reflect the logic on which Sankhya theory
was based ages ago. How, each deficiency, he has voiced, is
eliminated by the axiomatic logic of the Sankhya Suthras
(theorems of logic) that leads to a perfectly unified theory of
universal phenomenon, is presented further below.
  The foregoing view on singularities was tantamount to
postulating that the conceptual point was not a substantial or
real element of space. Logic however dictated that a ‘point’ must
be mathematically definable as a real element of the field, if a
theory was to be considered as being complete and self sufficient
on its own merit. Sankhya logic overcame the Einsteinian
conundrum ages ago by defining singularities as simultaneous
states containing the reactions of all past interactions and
likewise observable interactive states, as sequential activity
involving events in the future. In a brilliant mathematical anzats
involving self-similar principles, Sankhya logic showed that the
boundary of a singularity was the ending point of simultaneity
and the starting point of sequential activity. In the main section
on Gunas (Suthras 7 to 10) the derivation of this concept is
shown numerically.
A whole range of such boundary conditions could be generated
as powers of (1/x)n = (1+x)n and the latter could be expanded as a
binomial series to give a precise numerical value to its hidden
461
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
internal structure. Then any unit could be meaningfully factored
as (1+x)n (x)n = 1. It provided a spectrum of 'sequences of
similarity' equivalent to the Planck's blackbody radiation
spectrum. By this means not only was the boundary of a
singularity defined but also made equivalent to the basic
equation of motion like the Schroedinger / Dirac expressions.. At
the same time it eliminated the Heisenburg principle of
uncertainty for now the point or singularity contained the region
of uncertainty as an expandable binomial series with unlimited
choice of parameters to nail the source of uncertain time or
distance, within a boundary that could be made as small as one
wanted.
     On page 3 of the referred volume, there is a very relevant
statement that highlights the break in logic which very
surprisingly is explained satisfactorily by Sankhya theorems.
Einstein states “I shall not go into the details concerning those
properties of the space of reference which lead to our conceiving
points as elements of space, and space as a continuum. Nor shall
I attempt to analyse further the properties of space which justify
the conception of continuous series of points, or lines. If these
concepts are assumed , together with their relations to the solid
bodies of experience, then it is easy to say what we mean by the
three dimensionality of space; ---etc” . A number of major
conceptual gaps are glossed over by the foregoing statement as
set out below.
     ‘Solid’ bodies in space are accepted as a fundamental state
without further mathematical analysis. Logical completeness of
any theory demands that if observable phenomenon is defined
mathematically, then it must also be capable of defining through
the same logic non-observable phenomenon too (like empty
space) , that forms a part of what is considered to be the totality.
The possibility of identifying the point, as a mathematical
representation of a singularity, defining a real element or unit of
a substantial field, has been overlooked, even though experiential
logic clearly indicates the equivalence. The very concept of a
quantum is in effect the identification of a singular and
462
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
independent entity that behaves in such a way that it can be
quantified by a unit integer that retains it character throughout its
existence, as the activity constant in Sankhya.
     The 3 dimensions of space are taken as a standard structure
synonymous with a static framework of reference that lends it
the factor of ‘solidity’ perceived by experience. Strict adherence
to logic necessitates the demonstration through mathematical
rigor the evolution of the ‘solid’ quality as a derivable aspect of
observable phenomena. Such an effort would demonstrate that
even ‘dimensions’ (powers ) greater than 3 could still represent
a non solid or non observable phase of phenomenon in real terms
and not just an artefact of mathematical logic. The foregoing
underscores the fact that despite all the intellectual exploration
into higher “dimensional space”, real space is vectorially limited
to the 3 axis in reality.
On the contrary, Sankhya concept is founded on real space
populated with definable matter in a dynamic state whose
properties can only be intellectually inferred by axiomatic logic,
which is not in conflict with observation and experience. Such a
process becomes vital when one realises the impossibility of
deriving theoretical factors through experimental verification at
the fundamental or absolute level. Sankhya logic was based on
the principle of splitting space into two permanent,
complementary and mathematically reciprocal factors of
sequential time or activity and simultaneous time or super-
positioned activity states displaying mass and density
characteristics in a coherent or 'stationery' state. The implication
of a such an approach was that If time or action was detected it
portrayed its dynamic phenomenal status , otherwise it depicted
its (reciprocal) synchronised state equivalent to its static
condition.
In very simple terms it meant that the substantiality of space had
no effect on our mathematical equations except its state of
activity displaying sequential or simultaneous time . With this
extremely simple and elementary approach the need to look at
the static state through a separate mathematical anzats was
463
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
eliminated and enabled the presentation of both dynamic and
static phases through a single and unified formula. It simply
meant that a cube described by holographic methods would be
equivalent to a static expression of Length3 when in a resonant
or coherent state. Hence the necessity to classify space into
Galilean, inertial, Newtonian, electromagnetic field etc. were
completely eliminated. In fact the mathematical derivation then
exposed the various types of listed behaviour as a consequence
and not apriori.
In conceptual terms it meant that observable action and non
detectable activity could be treated mathematically as the
reciprocal of one another; or the sequential and simultaneous
aspects of time were nothing other than the equivalent of the
mobile and static aspect of interactions in space. Hence, even a
point in space could be treated as an element of reality, which
then endowed each of them with the mathematical status of a
real singularity or element in the real field of space. In such a
situation, the point singularity having a mathematical value lends
it the quantised status and what is more, the point concept
naturally leads on to a field theory with the characteristics of a
continuum made up of real points.
While an objection can be raised here, that the above seems to be
a repetition of the abandoned Ether concept, the Sankhya
mathematics will show that it is a dynamic state so
fundamentally different, as chalk from cheese. The outstanding
achievement of Sankhya logic is that it derives through an
axiomatic basis, the so called cubic point in space, to function as
the permanent and continuous source of power by acting as a
tiny 'blackhole-quantum-singularity' that absorbs all unbalanced
activity and in the process has the ability to expand into the state
of a gigantic cosmic spherical envelope without losing its
property of scale-invariance, self similarity, self organisation and
self maintenance, through one elemental variable ‘time’ not as a
dimension but as a relational and countable state of cyclic-
activity.

464
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
     On page 23 Einstein makes a point that the configuration of
rigid bodies have been founded upon the hypothesis that all
directions in space or all configurations of Cartesian systems of
co-ordinates, are physically equivalent. He refers to this
equivalence as the ‘principle of relativity with respect to
direction’ that uses the calculus of tensors to establish such
equations. Then poses the query whether there is a ‘relativity
with reference to the state of motion of the space of reference.’
While admitting there is such a principle based on Galilean
transformation of co-ordinates, he points out that it fails when
applied to electromagnetic phenomenon. Such a Galilean process
shows that the velocity of light varies with direction with
reference to an observer whereas the equations of Maxwell-
Lorentz are based on the constancy of electromagnetic
translation velocity. He quotes in support, the results of the
Michelson-Morley experiments that showed the velocity of light
was not affected by the translation speed of the earth in space.
Further, he made the point that, as there were no experiments
that could be conducted on the earth to show that it is travelling
at about 30kms around the sun, it confirmed the experimental
findings and the correctness of the logic behind the principle of
special relativity.
It is worth making an observation here, that both the problematic
questions raised by him can be shown to possess contrary
answers on applying Sankhya principles. The axiomatic self
similar principles of Sankhya show that all phenomenon
including the electromagnetic and particle ensembles are bundles
of vibrations locally generated by each point-singularity or
Purusha (blackhole state) in reaction to interactive stresses. The
vibrations or oscillations maintain a precise and constant rate,
within its own cyclic time of an axiomatic ratio . This
holographic ensemble transmigrates from one Purusha state to
another Purusha state like a line of people passing buckets of
water from person to person without the persons themselves
moving to transport the bucket. In this 'chain' analogy assume
that every human is a Purusha state, the arms of the human the
465
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
co-ordinate system, the bucket the earth and water the
electromagnetic wave ensemble and the constant rate of change
of bucket from hand to hand the velocity of earth-transfer and
light-velocity, the rate of transfer of stresses in water .
 The co-ordinate laws governing the transfer between bucket and
human hand are governed by rigid body or mechanical
considerations. One can use Cartesian, Galilean or Newtonian
equations here. What is not apparent, in the rigid-body mode of
analysis, that the Sankhyan principle of simultaneity (self similar
laws) is implicit as a time varying factor, but are excluded in the
so called classical treatment of physics. For the rigid body is
really an object of many parts acting together simultaneously.
Not so the water in the bucket, for it depends on its state of
flexibility and organisational form. Here one has to use equations
of Maxwell, Lorentz and special relativity. The velocity of
transfer of water and bucket being the same no relative velocity
could be measured between the two.                 Michelson-Morley
measured just that –a null difference between rate of transfer of
earth (bucket) and light-wave (stresses in water) with reference
to space or the human Purusha.
In this analogy the concept of a solid body should be replaced by
synchronous and coherent ensembles of vibrations that imitates
the static state and thereby projects the solidity of form, like the
bucket. But another experiment could have been conducted then
(the Doppler frequency shift) to show that the stresses in the
water increased in the direction of movement and decreased in
the opposite direction, displaying the frequency shift towards the
blue in the former case and shift towards the red for the latter. (In
relativity this is separated out as the characteristics of a
gravitational field, implying that it was a different state.) Hence
the speed of earth-motion could be derived from the Doppler
frequency shift in light frequency. A new experiment, yet to be
conducted, will show the bucket too (earth) will register an
increase in stress in the direction of motion and its reverse, a
decrease in stress at the opposite end, which could be detected

466
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
as change in the angle of synchronisation or coherence of the
internal stress potential.
The evidence for this factor exists even now in the distorted tidal
envelope around the earth and its extraordinary nature
highlighted by the maintenance of its shape as a permanent static
form, the mathematics for which does not exist in current
physics. Any static form in space, where everything is in motion
in relation to everything else, can only be described through
formulas based in simultaneous or self-similar laws operated
through a single variable. Therefore, absolute or zero movement
will be represented by a perfectly spherical surface distribution
of an identical-potential values in different directions from a
common centre. These would confirm the Sankhya concept of
the      holographic coherent field of space populated by
singularities in the Purusha state of a blackhole.
   The conversion of Sankhya logic into the equivalent
mathematical form recognised in physics, will show that the
fundamental unit in space expands to the bounded universal
volume in a natural and axiomatic way that encompasses the
concepts of quantum mechanics, electromagnetic and
thermodynamic principles in a single integrated mode that
collectively displays the characteristics of a gravitational field. It
shows unequivocally and unambiguously that there is only one
single law, process and method that operates in diverse ways at
different levels of observation.
On page 54 Einstein makes a point that as long as the principle
of inertia is regarded as the cornerstone of physics then the
earlier view of space as a real medium was justified. But he
provided two serious criticisms of this concept. “In the first place
it is contrary to the mode of thinking in science to conceive of a
thing (the space-time continuum) which acts itself, but which
cannot be acted upon. In order to develop this idea within the
limits of modern theory of action through a medium , the
properties of the space-time continuum which determines inertia
must be regarded as field properties of space, analogous to the

467
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
electromagnetic field. The concepts of classical mechanics afford
no way of expressing this.”
 The solution to the problem posed by Einstein is provided in the
main Sankhya Suthras. The definition of each component of
space (using concepts allied to classical mechanics) is precisely
and axiomatically enumerated as a Purusha state of a blackhole
(or singularity), which has the properties of a coherent (centred)
field that displays radiative (or electromagnetic) action when it‘s
balanced state of activity is upset but returns to the coherent
state (synchronous-field or inertial or static state) by absorption
of all non synchronous activity. It seems to act but not react
immediately and displays the typical dual-field property of a
‘one-way ground state’ or activity sink or absorber field.
  Here the principle of field action is described in two ways
namely that non synchronous or circulating field activity can be
described by electromagnetic laws of Maxwell / Lorentz and
special relativity whereas synchronous field activities achieve
self similar coherent states that display qualities of mass or
inertia and must be described by the self similar field laws of a
singularity that are equivalent to Newton’s gravitational laws,
Einstein’s General Relativity and blackhole mechanics
delineated by Hawking et al, the latter three of which are true
only as a boundary condition of the real point in space. The
formulation of 1/x = 1+x defines that boundary condition where
the Schroedinger equation begins to function and the uncertainty
of observable can be minimised to as small a bound as one can
or want. The magic here is that a blackhole point or singularity
(which represents the most dynamic state) resembles the perfect
static holographic state, when expressed mathematically by a
single law. One cannot but agree with Einstein’s observations
that there is no statistical uncertainty in nature which in the
context of human thinking gives it the divine base.
Later, on page 55 he says “In the second place, classical
mechanics exhibits a deficiency which directly calls for an
extension of the principle of relativity to spaces of reference
which are not in uniform motion relatively to each other.” Here
468
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
he points out that even though there are two different conceptual
modes of defining the cause of acceleration as being due to an
inertial or gravitational mass, the values from both are always
identical and equal to each other. He concludes that this equality
of both types of mass is justified in reality (through experiments
of Eotvos etc) and before theoretically accepting this equivalence
one must show that the two different concepts of mass derivation
are the same in principle. Using relativistic logic he analytically
concludes that the equality of both masses can only be confirmed
if the system was considered to be at rest relative to each other
but the accelerative property was inherent in a gravitational field
that influences and determines the metric laws of the space time
continuum.
The rather extenuating mathematical logic, used to arrive at this
conclusion given above is, on the contrary, made simple and
precise by the Sankhya concept of a holographic base for all
manifestation. This sea of singular, elemental matter comprising
cubic point singularities provided the base for phenomenon. The
singular element in the midst of an infinite sea of such
components cannot at all have the freedom to move, transfer or
translocate in any manner whatsoever in a relative way or in
other words each component is always at rest relative to each
other. It shows that there is no need to explicitly derive or state
the principle of equivalence. Due to any initiating cause it can
only interact with the adjacent components but not being able to
move, it merely creates vibratory stresses as a reaction.
However, the interactive stresses of the neighbouring
components can and must transmigrate as vibrations or
oscillations along this vast sea of unitary components. Its
interactions again can only be in three modes, that is towards
each other (compressive or inelastic ) or away from each other
(expansive or elastic) and continuously oscillate in both the
previous modes (resonant or bound states).
The components cannot move but the vibratory stresses can and
at the very first level it can and must commence as an interaction
between two units. Again, in such an initiating mode, Sankhya
469
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
logic stated that the fundamental interactive stress must
transmigrate directly in a straight line and cannot ‘curve’
logically. Summation of subsequent interactions produce the
‘curvature’ as a post interactive reaction that is related to the
different rates of interactive activity between any two axis. This
difference creates the non linear mode of action. As shown later,
the value of π is the sum of all the displacements due to a
standing wave resonant state at any or all rates of interactions
within a boundary. At an axiomatic cyclic oscillatory rate of 5.1
x 1013 / cycle the ‘curvature’ stops (the so called string) as this
value forms the maximum limit of an interactive rate in a self
similar domain due to a third order damping constraint (caused
by axiomatic reasons) and the interaction if continued , instead
of displaying tensor / vector or curvature characteristics, flips to
the opposite position or undergoes a parallel ‘displacement'
depicting scalar properties.
It is here that the electromagnetic mode of behaviour thus far
changes over to a linear or parallel or radiant movement mode.
Maxwell / Faraday laws end at 1013 and in just one cycle rises to
1026 to synchronise and act in a coherent mode along two axis to
display mass. The stress energy tensor value of 10-27 can be
shown to be the reciprocal of the previous sequence.
     Here it crosses the containment boundary and radiates
because the vibrations cannot superpose or compress any further
on its own potential and now behaves as a ‘solid or
simultaneous-action' section. The notable point about this
characteristic is that interactions curve inward or display elastic
properties up to the 13th. order but beyond it the radiant path is
linear and outward, typical of inelastic collisions.
But the enigma in understanding this action is confounded by the
logarithmic nature of the transition – that is upto1013 it moves
predictably in time following EM laws but just at one cycle past
that critical value it jumps to 1026 counts suddenly. At this point
of flipping across the boundary the fundamental cubic singularity
transmits its stresses in a radial outward mode. Sankhya deals
only with these stresses, as a dimensionless numerical value that
470
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
indicates the interactive counts per cycle and shows how it builds
up all the phenomena we observe, as a real hologram through
synchronous resonance that remains as a coherent ensemble of
vibrations around a passive core, at all levels of phenomena, be it
a tiny nuclear particle or even a gigantic galactic ensemble.
The classical gramaphone can be used as a model to understand
the transition phenomenon from a flexible and linearly moving
state to one of a rigid and non-moving ensemble. The orchestral
sounds from numerous instruments is recorded on a rotating
flexible platter through a needle as a gramaphone record.
Reversing the process reproduces the original sounds through a
megaphone. The fineness of the tapering needle point is the key
to the transfer of sound, to and from the spinning record. If one
froze the room full of sounds, at any instant, to a represent a
three dimensional hologram made up of ‘sound-fibres’, that
quantum from the orchestra would occupy the entire room-
volume. Feeding that bunch of ‘sound-fibres’ instantly into the
needle point, that relatively occupies a minuscule volume of
that room, would seem an impossible task. Yet the record does
get imprinted for on replay the entire spectrum of sounds are
heard at every instant without a break.
Sound is a vibration that can be only caused by changing stresses
of interacting objects like molecules of air or atoms in the needle
or the flexible medium in the platter. The only way for the room-
full of sounds to get imprinted on the disk is by the needle point
vibrating in as many ways as the sounds in the room vibrate at,
within the same time period. The flexible medium of the disk
must also react to the changes in stress at every instant.
Therefore the needle point vibrates in numerous modes to create
simultaneous rings of stress of varying amplitudes which get
recorded as a reaction. Sound or voice print records have
displayed this characteristic of containing complex information
that have simultaneous time characteristics but location or phase
variations that enable the discrimination of its inherent quality of
frequency and amplitude. Max Planck too found that any type of

471
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
radiation contained a spectrum or a stress record that was both
frequency and amplitude or wavelength dependant.
The Sankhyan view is clearly emphasised in the Gramaphone
example. Vibrations do not travel but only the stresses
transmigrate through a medium. Sankhya makes it into an axiom.
Because any process of detection or measurement or observation
is purely a reactionary response to the completion of an
interactive activity. An interaction between any two objects
causes a colliding stress that transmigrates as a reaction. Only a
stress reaction can be detected provided the interaction is
completed. Detection only confirms the existence of the stress
but not what caused it in the first place. For stress can be caused
only through interactions of ‘something’. The success of the
Sankhyan fundamental view enabled it to quantum leap right
into quantum mechanics, bypassing the travails in logic both
Newton and Einstein experienced . The unresolveable paradox
created by the famous EPR experiment is predicted clearly in
Sankhya, for the electron is only a record of a spectrum of
stresses in a medium.
     Einstein’s relativistic field theory also deals with such
vibrations but describes it as an infinitesimal displacement tensor
field of points represented geometrically as a continuum. The
logic of Riemannian geometry presents the curvature of a surface
as a natural consequence of its mathematics. However, its
adoption into General Relativity as the model to describe the
behaviour of a surface in space, presupposes that the curvature of
space is a de-facto reality. Einstein makes it clear that the ‘point’
in the geometry of space cannot be treated as a singularity or a
real element because it would have led to arbitrary mathematical
postulates in defining its boundary conditions which indeed was
the ‘source-location’ for the infinitesimal displacement field.
Einstein’s problem was real because there is no mathematical
method existing now that can describe a static point evolving
into a (movable) displacement or field activity, without an
identifiable cause / effect or action / reaction cycle and space
could not be made the source as it was a vacuum or pure
472
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
emptiness. Sankhya overcame this problem by showing that the
geometric point in the continuum is a real elemental singularity
called a Purusha, that followed the 1/x=1+x selfsimilar laws.
Conceptually the Universe or a galaxy seen from the “outside”
from a great distance would resemble the same point. The
Purusha was the repository of all the past interactions in the
fundamental state of space and in fact acted as the historical
record keeper by absorbing all the unbalanced interactions as a
maximised static potential with an astronomical numerical stress
value , to initiate activity as a vibratory source-field. The
Purusha’s stresses caused by interactions with adjacent ones,
created the ‘infinitesimal displacement’ field calculable by
Einstein’s relativistic theory. Whereas, Einstein could not define
the point because it had to be a real element in an empty space
and therefore, he found it impossible to provide the boundary
conditions, especially in a vacuum.
Another caveat was that mathematically curvature of a surface
produced the effect of mass or inertial characteristics and vice
versa. With Riemannian geometry, there was no need to create it
by a separate mathematical anzatz. Therefore, he effectively
dealt only with the movable infinitesimal displacement of points
in terms of space and time following geometric rules.. Moreover,
the experimental failure (of Michelson/ Morley )to verify the
medium of space, necessitated the derivation of the source that
became a point only because it dwindled into a zero-activity state
that was mathematically described as the boundary of a
boundary. However Sankhya logic showed the zero activity was
a only pseudo static state that actually housed the powerhouse of
the universe in each point singularity of space. One can visualise
this in the form of Rubic cube being subjected to intense twisting
& turning activity that would be described as a surface
interaction (Einsteins stress energy tensor to Hawkings super
radiant phenomenon are in this domain) but in reality the entire
reaction is centred on the invisible internal cube that MUST exist
if it were to function as expected.

473
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The visualisation process can be extended further by looking at
the external surface as an Einstein stress energy tensor boundary
activity and the internal surface of these cubes as the Hawkings
super radiant phenomenon regime. But holding all this together
is the invisible central cube acting as the anchor or swivel pin,
that really contributes to all the reactions, though it is invisible ,
both literally and figuratively. {Sankhya shows through a real
count value that this centre contributes the maximum rate of
power transfer = c5 /G per cycle. It transmits it by tunnelling as a
transmigration phenomenon, involving a variety of particulate
states that seem to function like waves.
Sankhya too dealt with vibrations but with a difference that
instead of an empty spatial point there existed a Purusha
singularity point component which was the permanent repository
of all the vibratory stresses existing due to any initiating cause in
space. The question that how each Purusha accumulated all the
vibratory stresses is answered by the logic that if there was no
externalisation or radiation the oscillatory activity had to remain
within this domain and get distributed equally in time (a
sequence of interactive cycles) among all the components as a
‘non moving’ activity-potential. The singularity thus defined has
an automatic and axiomatic boundary condition, which emerges
as a necessary consequence of evaluating the repository state of
all possible vibratory stresses around this Purusha point, through
an axiomatic logic of self-similar behaviour of components far
removed from other influences.
Hence, with this concept it can be positively stated that
singularities must be included, not as a stray and arbitrary
appearance but as a standard necessity everywhere in a real field
of elemental components. While the details of the mathematics
are given in the main Suthras, conceptually defining the Purusha
singularity and its boundary was simple. The in-going
(compressive = inelastic) vibratory stresses from all possible
sources must reside in that (centre of mass) point (Purusha) at
that instant and could be described mathematically by a cubic or
third order value. Next the sum of all the infinitesimal
474
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
displacements of the Einsteinian variety equated to the outgoing
(expansive = elastic) and resonant (bonding) stresses around the
Purusha must equal the in-going stress at every instant. If it did
not equalise then the algebraic difference defined the singular
state along with its boundary condition. If the difference was
zero it meant that the singularity did not behave as such or that it
was in a passive and balanced state.
This equation could not only mathematically describe a
singularity but also describe space that behaved as though there
were no singularities. The simultaneous in-going stresses
towards a point that became its limit could be described as a
third order damping stress. The 1/x =1+x could be rewritten as
x+x2 = 1= the balancing point and the difference x-x2 = x3 the 3rd
order damping constraint. It behaved as a constraint because it
acted against the simultaneous expansion and contraction
process at the SAME time. This equation then had the power to
equate dynamic field equations to static (or coherent) states of
the Purusha point (or singularity) with perfect linearity in the
form (1+x)n = binomial expansion. It gave an axiomatic,
mathematical and logical value directly connecting the field to
it’s source- the point singularity, which in fact was the
problematic cause that made Einstein exclude singularities from
a field theory. The activity in a continuum could be described
relativistically if there was inequality between compressive and
expansive stresses but if it was equal it identified the quantised
point or Purusha in the static state.
Just by accounting the imbalance in the in-going and outgoing
values the identity of the exposed and hidden states were
identified. There were no absolutes in Sankhya; even the so-
called constants were not. Its perfection lay in the fact that the
source of all power was local for each Purusha point of
singularity, (in coherent space) was the repository of all the
interactions in the cosmos from eternal times and therefore
provided the maximum static potential at every point or
singularity perpetually. The major inability of Einstein to accept
singularities as a mathematical reality in a field theory was
475
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
overcome, through a profound and fundamental conceptual
change by recognising the real existence of the substratum of
space in Sankhya. Now, the question could be asked “ is this
concept acceptable in the experimental domain of physics ”? The
answer would be a positive yes because the outcome of the long
series of the well known Michelson-Morley experiments
confirmed that the earth-matter did not move relative to space.
Further the Doppler effect of frequency shifts relating to motion,
confirmed the Sankhya principle that expansive-compressive
stresses only moved across the Purusha. The frequency shift
towards the blue end of the spectrum related to compressive
stresses while the red-shift was associated with the expansive
stress transmigration process.
The existence of coherent (static) Purusha state also has
confirmation in the highly accurate results of the Hughes –
Drever experiments to detect inertial-mass anisotropy by
detecting tiny frequency shifts in the atomic and nuclear
resonance lines. It is shown in the main Suthras through
exquisite mathematical logic that all manifestation, whether it be
a ray of light or even the largest object – a galaxy , are only the
variations in the coherent state of stresses residing in each
Purusha or a ‘conglomeration of Purusha –singularities’ acting as
a single, coherent or synchronised unit but on a different periodic
scale.
     The next question was that there existed an inherent
incompatibility between the continuum theory and quantised
presentation, which led to the ‘uncertainty concept’ of statistical
probability in defining phenomenon. The question was that '
could the quanta also be broken down to such a level as that of
the infinitesimal displacement field to achieve an accuracy
similar to a continuum theory'? Can one replace statistical
probability with interactive precision? Can one show that
acceleration and mass are reciprocal states? If the displacement
in space, time and rate of interactions between the ‘points’ or
singularities could be represented by a set of numerical series
that had the property of linearity and proportionality right down
476
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
to the infinitesimal state then the combination of these three
could enable the description of phenomenal activity in the nature
of a continuum with its accompanying characteristics of
certainty. That is these series had to be self-similar and scale-
invariant down to ‘zero’ displacement in space, eternal in time,
perpetually resonant and the synchronisation of these three
provided its own boundary naturally. Then every real point in
space, however close in distance or time could be described by a
linear and proportionate numerical ratio as expected in a field-
continuum. Sankhya has identified these three axiomatic ratios
as series. The very first Suthra in Sankhya lays down a
proposition that states that the three interactive modes of stress,
confirmed by experience, could not have existed but for the
presence of the following 4 qualities of space:
a) synchronous-coherence,
b) eternal existence,
c) perpetual dynamism and
d) unmanifest state.
Again in keeping with the axiomatic requirements that there are
no absolutes, all the (above) 4 are ratios of simultaneous and
sequential activities.




477
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                Appendix 5: Age Of The Vedas.

The rationale and proof of Vedic civilisation having existed
32000 years ago is given below. The Atharvaveda book 19,
chapter 7, verses 1 to 5, and chapter 8, verse 1 under
Nakshatradevatyam identifies 28 Nakshatras as the number of
divisions in the stellar horizon. The Sanskrit term Nakshatra ( Na
= 'not' Aksha = 'terrestrial latitude' Atra = 'in this case' meaning
not a terrestrial latitude in this case) is a label to identify a
numerical angular position or celestial latitude or longitude. It
eliminates the need to specify an arbitrary angular limit like 360
degrees in a circle. The number 28 came about from Sankhya
theory where Prakriti binds by 7 divisions in each direction and
the four quarters gave 28 divisions in a plane giving 12.857
degrees per section in modern notation. The 7 comes from the
integer mathematics used in Sankhya. The basic volume is
proportional to the first, fundamental or elemental unit radius3
=13 and the next incremental radius of 2 3 =8 units. When the
volume increases by doubling the radius, it grows from 1 to 8, or
7 volumes are added. Since the basic volume cannot be detected,
because the process of detection is relative (or by comparison),
only 7 volumes can be measured with reference to the first
volume. 8-1=7. the logic is based on the concept that a truly
elemental unit cannot be fractionalised because if it can be, then
it is no more an elemental unit. this is the basic reason for the
spectral range of seven segments in any field.
     The Sankhya system developed the integer number theory on
a logical need based principle thereby eliminating arbitrary
systems, like 360 degree division of a circle etc. In today's
almanacs only 27 Nakshatras are mentioned. There is a very
logical and accurate reason for this change that justifies the
theory that Vedic civilisation existed 32000 years back and it is
given below. The earth spins on its own axis in 24 hours or
1/365.25 of its annual orbit around the sun. This sets the actual
time of a daily revolution to less than 24 hours of clock time, if
the starting point of each daily revolution is referred to a location
478
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
in the sky; that is ( (24 x 3600)/365.25) = 236.55 sec or 3 min
and 56.55 sec less than 24 hours. It means that if we use a
particular stellar constellation or star at the zenith or the horizon,
identifying the starting point for the daily revolution of the earth,
one would see this mark arrive 3 min and 56.55 sec earlier every
day and will again coincide with the same stellar location and
clock time only after 365.25 days or a year. It is the natural shift
in timing of an object that is both spinning and orbiting in space.
The time of 23 hrs 56 min 3.45 sec is called sidereal time. Hence
we can locate the star accurately at any future time by applying
the sidereal time from a known date within an annual cycle.
Similarly if the location of this star is recorded at a particular
time, it is possible to work out the location of the observer and
the date of such observation, all within the cycle of one year.
This example has been quoted to show that location and date of
events can be ascertained with the required degree of accuracy
based on the sidereal shift in stellar positions.
     Added to the sidereal shift that moves along the solar
ecliptic, there is another movement due to the shift in the angle
of earth’s axis to the ecliptic that creates a relative change in the
angle of inclination of the ecliptic. This movement is called
precession of the equinox and is treated in current physics as a
problem connected with spinning bodies like a gyroscope and in
relativistic physics it is due to the curvature of the field. But
Sankhya proves that all phenomenon is due to the
synchronisation of vibrations or it is of a holographic nature and
treats space like any other matter field comprising gas or fluid
etc. that causes delay by superpositioning of vibrations and
therefore a shift in the static or synchronised state and both these
shifts are combined and defined as Ayanamsa (Ayan = motion or
movement and Amsha degree or division- in Sanskrit explained
below). The fundamental reason that precession exists is that the
oscillating or vibrating parameters along the two axis in the
plane of motion is not synchronous or the synchronous nodes
along the two axis have marginally different rates of oscillations.
Two sets of axial vibrations can be in resonance or have a
479
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
standing wave relationship if the two axis (say x and y ) have a
ratio of one to two. That is the tangent of an angle of 26.565 is
exactly ½ and at this value the resonant state at the 2 nd harmonic
is maintained. If it exceeds this ratio or the angle becomes
smaller the resonance can only occur at a harmonic level higher
than 2 which cannot be sustained. A spinning object that does
not move can maintain both axis at identical synchronous rates
and therefore present a perfect spherical surface of rotation but
the movement in a particular direction sets up differences in
time, direction or rates which causes non synchrony and
therefore an unbalanced state with a non spherical surface of
rotation. The angle 26.565 deg. or the tangent ratio ½ is an
exceedingly critical parameter in space because all the vector
relationships follow a law of self similarity and scale invariance.
That is every connected parameter can be described in terms of a
factor x raised to some integer power and x forms an infinite
nested series. The shantimantra "Purnamida Purnamadam "etc:
when decoded correctly, gives the numerical value of x , with
extraordinary characteristics. It is explained fully in the "Guna"
Suthras in Sankhya. At 26.565 deg. the resonant oscillatory rate
is 296575967 which is almost identical to the velocity of light at
a meter wavelength. Since the components of the substratum are
also oscillating at the same rate an equilibrium condition
becomes established in the field along this angle. Hence any
solid spinning orbiting object experiences a resonential
relationship with the vibratory conditions along its periphery and
if such conditions remain stable or the differential parameters
maintain the same rate, then the object maintains this
relationship or it becomes strapped or locked to this angle of
transfer of vibrations. One must remember that Sankhya
emphasises that the solidity of objects is created by the
superpositioning of vibrations on the elemental component of
space and only formations as vibrating ensembles travel. Hence
the locked state does not lose its phase relationship easily and
unless the relative rate difference exceeds the self-similar ratio ,
no change takes place. This is the gyroscopic effect.
480
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
The earth's equator spins at a mean surface velocity of
approximately 462 m/s and the earth itself moves around the sun
at an algebraic mean speed of approx. 29845.4 m/s. But the
earth's axis is tilted by 23.5 deg. to the plane of revolution
around the sun, called the ecliptic. As a result of this tilt, the
earth's maximum spin velocity vector at the equator works out to
: 462 x .91706 (cos 23.5) = 423.52 m/s. The drift of the starting
point of the ecliptic is at the rate of 423.52 / 29845.4 = 1 / 70.47
of a cycle and the drift due to the sidereal effect is 1/365.25
thereby giving a total drift of 1 / (70.47 x 365.25) = 1/ 25739 of a
cycle. It means that an identical ecliptic coincidence of the sun
and earth at a particular position will be repeated only after
25739 cycles or years in this case. This calculation has been
shown in a simplified form to make it understandable but a very
accurate calculation supported by many years of practical
observation gives a drift rate of 50.35 seconds of arc per solar
year and is only used in Vedic astrological calculations as a
normal course . The precession of the equinox calculated by
applying modern principles of celestial mechanics is 26000 years
or (49.85 sec of arc per year.). But extremely accurate
calculations give varying precessional rates at different periods
and relative positions, but the 25739 rate is an average of over
30000 years. (See precess.mcd)
The Vedic scholars, following the Sankhya principle of self-
similarity that governed the dynamic state of the Substratum,
took the ecliptic coincidence as a clock time benchmark that can
at least be relied on in a cycle of approximately 25739 years.
This drift or Ayanamsa was used by astronomers and astrologers
to fix the moving zodiac (ecliptic) so that accurate comparisons
of events could be made in a locality where everything is moving
relative to everything else. If the number of Ayanamsa cycles are
known between events in multiple units of 25739 years, then it
could be compared meaningfully.
     [As an illustration of the accuracy of Vedic calculations,
using the same fixed zodiac or ecliptic, one can calculate the
return of the moon to the same or identical position once in 40
481
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
years. This is mentioned in the Atharva Veda book 20, chapter
34, verse 11. ]
    The Vedic scholars have identified the equinoctial position
in a particular period as beginning in the stellar position of the
constellation Punarvasu. The term Punar means "the return or
repeat" and Vasu is a "ray of light or a sighting point" and the
whole word has the meaning of the starting point or point of
coincidence indicating 0 deg. latitude & longitude on the orbital
ecliptic. There is another proof of this position being the starting
point today. Abhijit, one of the 28 Nakshatras, is situated exactly
180 degrees in opposition to Punarvasu, in the constellation now
called Vega north of the equator, and was identified as a 12.857
degree sector in the sky during the period when the Atharvaveda
was developed. Due to the 23.5 degree tilt of the earth's axis, any
celestial body would tend to swing north and south annually just
as the sun does seasonally. The total swing being 47 degrees,
sectors that are far north or south would seem to disappear or the
angular displacement would decrease during these excursions. In
astrology such a division of sectors are called unequal houses
and when calculating positions far north or south of the equator,
the same zodiacal sign would occupy two sectors or houses
thereby eliminating a house completely. Abhijit, being far north,
the angular displacement of the 12.857 deg. sector seems to
become virtually zero during the southerly excursion once in
25739 years. Because of this phenomenon, currently Abhijit as
an identifiable sector has virtually disappeared and is not
included in the post glacial scenario as a Nakshatra. The period
of such disappearance can last up to 6000 years depending on the
declination. While the Vedic scholars divided the celestial
ecliptic into 28 divisions based on Sankhya Thaamasic principles
explained earlier, they gave each sector a name only to identify
the angular position starting from Punarvasu as the starting point
or number One sector. Since Abhijit cannot be identified,
astrologers have reconciled their calculations with 27 sectors of
13.33 degrees each instead of the 12.857 unit. The names of
these sectors are associated with constellation names to enable
482
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
identification and the locational precision is improved by
dividing the Nakshatra position by 4 sections and each of these
sections into 9 divisions with a provision to improve accuracy by
a further two sets of ninth divisions equalling approx. 15 sec of
arc.
The Atharvaveda has given two identifiable points ; namely the
starting point in Punarvasu as an indicator of Vedic history and
the progress of the Nakshatra called Kritika (in Plaiedes
constellation) to the starting point, under the heading of
Nakshatradevatyam in the 19th book, (chapter 7), the
penultimate volume.
Some elementary calculations gives the number of years from
the current position. Calculations show that the current starting
position or the 0 degree position on the ecliptic to date is in the
Nakshatra Aswini or Aries constellation between 0 and 13
degrees. As a rough guide the total ayanamsa period of 25739
years divided by 28 yields 919 years per Nakshatra passage.
Taking the maximum number of Nakshatras traversed between
Aswini and Punarvasu as 7 then the time elapsed is 7 x 919 =
6500 and if the difference between Punarvasu and Kritika is
taken as 5 then 5 x 919 = 4595 years. If it is surmised that the
depth of Sankhya & Vedic knowledge was produced about 6500
years back, then physical evidence (archaeological)
corroborating such advancement would have been available as it
is in the post glacial period and could not have been destroyed.
The best evidence so far indicates that the civilisation around
6000 years ago left behind shards of pottery and burial mounds
(around 4000 BC) and artefacts dating 2500 BC. Analysing the
ecliptic drift again, the ecliptic-equinox in the current period is in
Nakshatra Aswini in constellation Aries; approximately 1838
years ago it would have been in the Nakshatra Kritika in the
Plaiedes constellation. Approximately 6433 years ago the
equinox would have been in the Nakshatra Punarvasu in the
constellation Gemini. As Punarvasu is the starting point, the
development of Vedic science to the level depicted in Sankhya
could not have been possible in 6500 years for one thing and the
483
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
historical and geological evidence of global flooding due to a
glacial melt about 10000 years ago strongly suggests that the
current civilisation has virtually begin from scratch. The
inundation theory has been corroborated theoretically by various
investigators including Lokmanya Tilak and the plausible cause
explained in his book " The Arctic Home in the Vedas". He has
shown logically that the Vedic civilisation thrived in the Polar
regions about 20000 years ago.
If the Punarvasu position is pursued back in time by another full
cycle of 25739 years it takes the clock back by about 32165
years from the current period. If the view is taken that this
coincidence on the ecliptic is the second time around then the
picture is very different. Instead of 7 the sectors increase, by
adding 28 to 7 gives a total of 35 sectors; which equals 35 x 919
= 32165 years and reducing the current 1996 years since BC
leaves the time elapsed as 30169 or 30,000 years BC.
The flooding event 10000 years back puts the ayanamsa source
in the Nakshatra Magha in the constellation Leonis and there is
evidence that this ecliptic coincidence has been of some
significance as it is mentioned in the Atharva Veda in connection
with the beginning of a serious calamity extending over a long
period. A serious effort at objectively decoding (translating) the
Atharva and Rig Vedas, in particular, will yield a fund of
information on the history of our planet in Vedic times besides
elucidating the principles of unification of all sciences. The
mathematics used here has been deliberately kept at an
elementary level so that the principle is understood easily. Since
the translation of Sankhya Suthras have yielded exceptional
information on cosmology and physics that is not yet known to
current science, there is no doubt whatsoever of Lokmanya
Tilak’s contention that the Vedic civilisation must belong to the
preglacial era. The reference in the Atharvan augments
Lokmanya's findings. Besides, Maharishi Kapila’s axiomatic
approach has provided solutions of exceptional accuracy in
describing phenomenon in an unified way, by a process of

484
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
merely counting interactions. The main text provides detailed
explanation of Sankhya principles.
[The following news item was received by e-mail from a
colleague in the USA on 5th. Sep 2001. that may provide
conformation to the above hypothesis.
Amazing         Arctic       artefacts      discovered.
Tools indicate hunters lived in the north 40,000 years
ago.

[Image:                                         Tusk]
A mammoth tusk with grooves carved by a sharp stone is
shown in this undated photo. The tusk was among the
artefacts researchers discovered close to the Arctic
Circle.

ASSOCIATED PRESS

Sept. 5 - Primitive stone tools and other artefacts
discovered close to the Arctic Circle in the desolate far
north of European Russia indicate that a band of hunters
set up camp there almost 40,000 years ago - far earlier
than    previously     thought,   researchers    report.]

   There is an additional reference from research in
Oceanography. See Appendix 4A.
Notes: The stellar divisions based on 28 Nakshatras- the angular
width = 12.857
(With 27 the angular divisions are 13.333 deg.)
No. NAMEDegrees Constellation.
1 Aswini             0 -- 12.86 Arietus 3
2 Bharani            12.86 -- 25.71 Arietus Mus3
3 Kritika       25.71 -- 38.57 Tauri Aloyoni 6

485
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
4    Rohini      38.57 -- 51.43 Tauri Aldebaren 5
5    Mrigasirisa      51.43 -- 64.29 Orionis 3
6    Ardra       64.29 -- 77.14 Orionis 1
7    Punarvasu 77.14 -- 90 Gemini Pollux 5 Zero reference
8    Pusya       90 -- 102.86 Cancri 3
9    Aslesha 102.86 -- 115.71 Hydrea 6
10   Magha            115.71 -- 128.57 Leonis Regular 5
11   P.Palguni 128.57 -- 141.43 Leonis 4
12   U.Palguni. 141.43 -- 154.26 Leonis 4
13   Hasta       154.26 -- 167.14 Corvi 5
14   Chitra      167.14 -- 180 Virginis Spica 1
15   Svati       180 -- 192.86 Boothis Arcturis 1
16   Visaka      192.86 -- 205.71 Libra 3
17   Anuradha 205.71 -- 218.57 Scorpionis 3
18   Jestha      218.57 -- 231.43 Antares 3
19   Mula        231.43 -- 244..26 Scorpionis 6
20   P.Ashada 241.26 -- 257.14 Sagittaris 4
21   U.Ashada 257.14 -- 270 Sagittaris 4
22   Abhijit          270 -- 282.86 Vega 180 deg.
         (Abhijit is not used in current calculations.)
23 Sravan        282.86 -- 295.71 Aquilate 3
24 Dhanishta 295.71 -- 308.57 Delphini 4
25 Satabisha 308.57 -- 321.43 Aquari 100
26 P.B.Pada 321.43 -- 334.26 Pegasi 4
27 U.B.Pada 334.26 -- 347.14 Peg. Andromeda 4
28 Revati        347.14 -- 360. Picium 3
References: atharva veda samhita w.d.whitney.
Av book 19, hymn 7, v. 2 magha ayanamsa page
906,907,908,909 , book 6 . Hymn 110, page 360, book 2, notes
8.1, page 48, book 14, hymn 1, v.13 page 742,.
Atharvaveda by Devichand M.A.
Bk. 19, hymn 7, verse 2, ayanam magha . Page 730 /731. V 1 to
5. Nashatra identity.
"The Arctic Home in the Vedas" by Lokamanya Tilak.


486
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.



               Appendix 5A: Age Of The Vedas.

Rapid Rise of Sea Level 19,000 Years
Ago and Its Global Implications
Peter U. Clark,1* A. Marshall McCabe,3 Alan C. Mix,2
Andrew J. Weaver4
Evidence from the Irish Sea basin supports the existence of an
abrupt rise in sea level (meltwater pulse) at 19,000 years before
the present (B.P.). Climate records indicate a large reduction in
the strength of North Atlantic Deep Water formation and
attendant cooling of the North Atlantic at this time, indicating a
source of the meltwater pulse from one or more Northern
Hemisphere ice sheets. Warming of the tropical Atlantic and
Pacific oceans and the Southern Hemisphere also began at
19,000 years B.P. These responses identify mechanisms
responsible for the propagation of deglacial climate signals to the
Southern Hemisphere and tropics while maintaining a cold
climate in the Northern Hemisphere. 1 Department of
Geosciences, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331,
USA.
2
  College of Oceanic and Atmospheric Sciences, Oregon State
University,        Corvallis,       OR         97331,        USA.
3
   School of Environmental Studies, University of Ulster,
Coleraine,      Northern      Ireland    BT52       1SA,       UK.
4
  School of Earth and Ocean Sciences, University of Victoria,
P.O. Box 3055, Victoria, British Columbia V8W 3P6, Canada.
The information in the report conforms to a period in Magha as
highlighted in the Atharvaveda Bk. 19, hymn 7, verse 2, ayanam
magha . Page 730 /731. V 1.



487
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                Appendix 6: Sanskrit Language.

Any language is basically a code. Both spoken and written
languages are symbolic representation of a type of logic used for
communication. A monotonous sound is clipped into short
pulses by the introduction of a short period of silence and these
are combined into sets that are given a meaning by the user. Any
cyclic vibration has a typical characteristic of reversal of action,
like up and down, forward and backward or left and right and
this variation can be described as creation and destruction or
acceleration and deceleration or sinusoidal oscillation. If the
opposing effects are equal they cancel out or the nett algebraic
effect is zero which does not contribute to detectable or
measurable signal. The period the pulse is on can be considered a
'mark' and the silence a 'space' and a combination of mark and
space makes a cycle. Numerous possibilities can be had with
different combinations of mark space ratios and therefore many
forms of codes can then become languages.
Verbal languages are composed of a complex form of such
codes. Similarly script can be formed by dots and or dashes
against a different coloured background and numerous complex
combinations provide various language scripts. A white sheet
of paper forms a monotonous background but a dot in a
contrasting and detectable colour forms an elementary written
code. The structuring of such codes is based on principles of
organising limitations or constraints. The human speech
mechanism has a set of built in organs that allow him to vocalise
but at the same time his lungs, vocal cords, tongue, mouth, teeth,
lips and nose act as constraints to limit his ability to control
sounds. Formulating all these limitations in a theoretical way
allows him to maximise the range and depth of his language
coding system which Sanskrit is.
"Sanskrit" means a refined code. "Sama" means equalised and
"krit" means cut, clipped, divided, pulsed or in other words a
code. The language was developed scientifically and logically as
the only possible code human beings could create naturally with
488
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
the equipment they had, the human body. The lung along with
the vocal cords formed a sound producing device. The
diaphragm, separating the lung from the stomach, could be
expanded or contracted thereby enabling the production of
sound, through the vocal chords. It could be extended by an
additional time duration called the second time constant. The
tongue, teeth and lips clipped the sound to produce the
consonants of the alphabet.
The code was systematised in the following manner. Clipping
the sound at the back of the palate with the root of the tongue
produced a silent or hard consonant like "ka". If it was vocalised
at the same time it became "ga". Both "kha" and "gha" sounds
could be formed by aspirating at the same time to produce the
second time constant. If contact of the tongue was softened it
became a nasalised "nga" thus forming a set 5 different sounds
with the same position of the tongue. It had a direct correlation
to the Triguna classification of interactive states in Sankhya as
Thaama Raja and Sathwa with interface states Linga & Bhava
and Abhiman & Ahankar.
Further, by placing the middle of the tongue against the roof of
the mid-palate, another set of 5 sounds like "cha", "chha", "ja",
"jha" , "nja" were created. The alveolar position produced "tta",
"ttha", "dda", "ddha", "nna" and the dental position gave "tha",
"thha", "dha" , "dhha", "na". Next, using the lips the labial
sounds of "pa", pha", "ba", "bha", "ma" were produced. In all 5
sets of consonants with 5 characteristics in each set were created
to cover the alphabetic spectrum of sounds. A third dimension
was added in the form of short and long duration vowels.

Based on the fundamental Sankhya theory that the human ability
to discriminate a change became the first detectable code which
was called “matra” or a beat or period. Every code had a
numerical or sequential value Now using the information we
have derived so far we can set up a grid of the refined code
called Sanskrit. The table of alphabetical codes & symbols are
given below:
489
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
T/C =Tone/Class       Gut = Gutteral        P al= Palatal
Alv = Alveolar         Den = Dental          Lab = Labial
SH=Silent-hard        SA=Silent-           VH=Voiced-hard
                      aspirated
VA=Voiceaspirate SV=Semi Vowel              Sib= Sibilant
dConsonants.

T/C           Gut      Pal      Alv        Den      Lab
SH            Ka 1     Cha 6    t'Ta 1     Tha 6    Pa  1
SA            Kha 2    Chha 7   t'Tha 2    Thha 7   Pha 2
VH            Ga 3     Ja   8   d'Da 3     Dha 8    Ba  3
VA            Gha 4    Jha 9    d'Dha 4    Dhha 9   Bha 4
Nasal         n'Ga 5   n'Ja 5   n'Na 5     Na 5     Ma 5

SV            Ya   1   Ra 2     La    3    Va   4
Sib           Ha 8     Y'sh 7   Sha   6    Sa   5
Ending        Ksha 0                                im   5

Vowels

Short    a        i      u      ir        ai    O
Long     aa       ee     oo     irl       aai   Ouw

The alphabetical code had a natural sequential numerical value
and these have been marked against each sound. Numbers of any
value can be represented by an alphabetical string of letters to
any number of decimal places and can be easily remembered as a
picturesque phrase. Hence mathematical theorems can not only
be represented as memorable phrases at the obvious level but
the letters in a phrase can represent numerical values of worked
out solutions. Today animated graphic techniques make it easy to
communicate the most complex ideas. In Vedic times too, the
same principle was used to produce a dynamic imagery through
a precisely formulated oral system. Scripting was ignored as a
communicating tool as meditative processes were immensely
490
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
superior in absorbing field characteristics through sound control.
The verses contained six types of controls as rhyme rhythm,
tone, inflection, emphasis and onomatopoeic meaning. The
Prathisakhya, an explanatory appendix, clarified rule changes
from the normally used procedure. Ancient Sanskrit had no
grammatical restrictions, for poetical compositions had to be
flexible enough to convey complex ideas whereas prose, though
comprehensive, failed due to its ‘inability to memorise’ long
alphabetic sequences. Applying these factors to each set of verse
'simultaneously' through the learnt 'meditative Siddhi technique'
created a real experience in the mind. The Dharma Mega
Samadhi state helped to understand the meaning, as a realistic,
picturesque ‘mental experience’, the author tried to convey
As an example the very first Sloka from of the Rigveda is
decoded and interpreted as explained below.
The Sanskrit phrase with its equivalent meaning is:
Agnimile purohitam yajnasya devamritvajam hotaram
ratnadhatam.

Agnimile Through expansion (by heat )
Purohitam Theorising        (by Pundits )
Yajnasya Triggering (Sacrifice triggers nature to act)
Devamritvajam Substratum of space(essence of nature)
Hotaram      Extraction of
Ratnadhatam Free energy ( gift of the highest order )

       "By triggering the expansive qualities of the
fundamental substratum abundant free energy can be
obtained".
The number value decoded from the original Sanskrit code is
‘35312861871845648862226955’ It represents the numerical
value of the volumetric rate of light radiated in cubic yards per
unit time of one Vedic second.
Agni mi le pu ro hi th’m ya jna as ya
3      5     3   1   2    8     6      1    8    7 1

491
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
de   va mri th va j’m ho tha ram
8    4    5    6     4   8    8   6    2
ra   tna    dha th ma ‘m.
2      2     6     9   5    5

In Sankhya the Triguna theory of simultaneous and self similar
interactions derives the standard oscillatory cycle of components
in space through axiomatic theorems and equals
2.965759669e+8 interactions per cycle,. It is approximately
equal to the frequency of modern velocity of light at a
wavelength of a meter in 1.010845 seconds, which is due the
earth’s distance from the Sun. The solar gravity field flux
density varies as the log of distance. The Meter to yard
conversion factor of 1.30795 for cubic space and a time
correction of 2.99792458e+8/1.486e+11 shown below which is
an indicator of their scientific knowledge. It yields the value of
3.5312861 x 1025 cubic yards per second exact to the 7th decimal
place of the value from the Rigvedic theorem. Statistically this
equivalence cannot be an accident. An important factor is that
time correction for Galactic and Earth velocities were included
which means the Vedic forefathers knew of the Doppler shift in
frequency due to relative movement. This proves that relativity
theory is a superfluous corollary in nature. Similarly, the
precessional deviation in the orbit of Mercury can be derived
precisely by the Sankhya concept of a holographic field. The
spin of any conglomerate object is not a movement but a delay in
‘re-writing’ its holograpic form, which gives the illusion of a
rotary movement. Just as, if the sync pulse is delayed on a TV
screen, the picture will seem to move across it.
Modern Sanskrit was the result of a post glacial renaissance by
the survivors of the floods. The ancient oral communication
system used in the brahmanical tradition of scholarship
apparently survived intact a period of perhaps a few generations.
For the resurrected Vedic compositions still reflect the enigmatic
original concepts, despite efforts at projecting a rational meaning
to phrases that were beyond the grasp of post glacial
492
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
interpretation. The interminable forays into extracting the real
meaning from Vedic verses by both foreign and native savants,
left behind a trail of confused verbiage, compounded and
coloured by a well intentioned obeisance to anthropomorphic
concepts. The hidden origin of ultra-sublime concepts, that
occasionally got through the Vedic phraseology, doubly
emphasised its apparent divine origin for these aphorisms, to a
community which had somehow survived the awesome glacial
melt that prolonged the collateral damage over centuries.




493
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.

      Appendix 7: Lexicon Of Sanskrit Terminology.

aagamat, rationale, method, approach,
aabhyanthar, inner, internal, interior.
aapthavach, axiom, logical, theorem, principles
aapthi, proved, trusted, reliable,
aasthi, real world , belief in god, ,
aathmaka, related to core state, nuclear, self centred,
aathishayaya, abundant, maxima,limit
aathyantha, perpetual, excessive, endless, omnipresent
abhaavaath, quiescent, unmanifest, undetectable, destructive
abhibhava, predominant, plentiful, contemptuous,
abhighaatha, interaction, collision, impetus, obstruction
abhihar, absorb, usurp, robbing, attack,
abhimana, self potential, self-measure,
self dimension, self-awareness
abhyasa, practising, study, repetition, improvement
achethanam, static, inanimate, lifeless, non-awareness
adha, instant, now, moment, today
adharma, un-principled, illogical-action, irreligious,
adhastad, lower , below , beneath,
adhigam, obtain, accomplish, understand, to arrive
adhisthana, source-place, primary state, supervisory ,role
adhivasitham, superposition, occupation nos,
 residence, multiple abode
adhya, first, pre-eminent, primary, leading
adhyavasaya, constraint, stress,
perseverance, determined, insistant
adhyayanam, research, study, analysis , improvement in
adi, original, first, principle, commencement
adyah, first, primary, preeminent, -
agamat, deduce, conclude, science, vedas
agni, accelarate, expand, heat, ag=move=3
aham, self, core, nuclear, entity
ahankara, dynamic self , - potential, self action, self motivation
494
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
aikaantha, coherent, synchronised, solid, monotheistic
aikaanthikam, ultimate, final, supersymmetry, coherent
aiswarya, controlling , - power, -acceleration, superiority
aith, variety of colours
ajnana, inability to , - discriminate,
notunderstand, unable detect
akaranam, without cause, self-similar,
self motivated , endless cause
akhyatam, explained, made, known, enumerated
akrith, action, unheard, shielded, submerged
alocana matra, detectable , frequency, level of , awareness
ambakam, radiant spectrum, vapourous, radiation, fluidic
amith, boundless, infinite, ,
anekam, plural, many, multiple,
anithyam, uncertain, temporary, fugitive,
anyonya, mutual, each-other, ,
anth, last, least, lowest, end
anumanam, inference, derivation, conjecture,
anushravik, standard, classical, sacred , - tradition
aparishesh, exact, no remainder, no overlap,
apaarthha, potentialless, useless, pointless, meaningless
apavarg, coherence, synchronised, final beattitude, fullfilment
apnothi, accomplish, effect, secure, ensure
aptavacanam, axioms, truths, ,
aptha, reliable, trustworthy, appropriate, fit
arambhah, beginning, work, haste, effort
artha, potential, motive, use, value
asath, nonfact, incorrect, unreal, nonentity
ashakthi, asynchronous, unharmonius, inability, weak
ashraya, resting place, ashram, an authority,
ashrayinah, resting state, static, ,
ashritham, supported, aided, alternatively, recourse
ashta , eight, , ,
asth, spreading, diffusing, setting, waning
asthi, expansive, setting, dwindling, reducing
ath, to, go, move, constantly
495
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
ath, move, constantly, dynamic, oscillate
athindriyam, imperceptible, prasidhi, success, fame
auth, anxiety, zeal.
avadhaath-n, clean, pure, white, oiustanding
avaghahathey, plunges to a point, intense stress
avastha, state, circumstance, ,
avasthith, place, location, state, circumstance
avayavam, mass, body, limb, portion
avighatha, acceleration, unhindered, unobstructed,
avikara, no change, static, inanimate,
avikrithi, fundamental, elemental, unchanging, static, absence
aviparyay, not inverted, unchanged, constant ,no error,
avishudhi, imperfect, not-purified, distorted
aviveka, undetectable, dull-witted, lack-of-wisdom/judgement
avyaktha, unmanifest, undetectable, fundamental, indistinct
avyavam, mass, body , limb, part
avyapi, non, -pervasive, localised, contained
awadha, weak, low, disagreeable,
bhagya, destiny
bhandha, confinement, bonding, restraint, result
bhava, kinetic charge, wave form, manifest forms, temper
bhedey, interruption, breach, conversion, change
bhoga, use, experience, absorb , rule
bhra, support, fill, hold, nourish
bhuddhi, potential, coherence, will, contained wisdom
bhutadi, particle
mass, conglomerate , elements,
bibhritha, change , fragment , reduce,
cha, and, alone, moreover, nevertheless
chalam, shuttling, shaking, unsteady, mercury
chakrabramha, flywheel, potters wheel, lathe, inertial wheel
charithartha, successful, contented, balanced, synchronous
charathi, oscillate, vibrate, move, shake
chenna, were it not, but for, if it wasn't, un necessarily
chetana, awareness, consciousness, life, intellectual
dhanam, divergent, dividing , charity, straighten
496
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
dharshan, detection, sight, visibility,
dharshayithwa, desire to be seen
dharanna, superpose, keep in mind, possession,
dharma, axiom , principle, law, reverence
dharmadinam, first principles, axiomatic law,
natural law, basic behaviour
dhathu, singularity, element, soul, humour
dhi, receptacle, , end, of
dhrisht, perception, detection, evaluation, observation
dhrith, solid, firm, static, contented
dhu:kha, stress, pressure, force, pain
dhurath, far, away, distant, remote
dhurath, away, distant, remote, far
dhvara, by means of, medium, through,door
gamanam, leading to, , ,
ghora, interactive , turbulent, violent,
grahanath, acceptance, comprehension, ,
guna, interaction, selfsimilarity , state of action, gu=3 na=5
harya, accelerate, transport, carryoff,
hethu, exists, motive, impulse, means
hethumat, effect, , ,
indriyaghatan, sensory obstruction, , ,
ishvara, triggered resonant vibrations, accelerative,
creator,     sustainer
ishtam, appropriate, as, required, result
ishti, trigger input, sacrifice, desired object, target
janana, creation, birth, origin, life
jijnaasaa, investigation, inquiry, inquisitivenes, curiosity
jna -na, self-potential, coherent potential, wisdom, sentience
jnaanama, potential sink, ground state, information source
ka, vapour, fire, air, sun
kaivalya, unhindered, freedom, exclusiveness, individuality
kala, time,
kalaladhya, instant of time, quickness, moment,
karana, cause, bond, motive, element
kalpa,
497
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
karannam, an act, bonding, instrument, sensory
kaaryam, action, duty, work, effect
kas, approach,
kevalam, absolute, solely, solitary, only
krith, sharp cut, pulsing action,.square-wave, vibration
krithsnam,whole, total
kshya, attenuated, decline, dwindling, resting
lakshanyam, similarity, quality, definition, subject
laghu, swift , light, small,
laya, absorption, concentration, superpose
linga, coherent state , super position, field-potential, inertia
mah, fluid, water, freedom, hapiness
mahadh, impulse, intense, massive, accelaration
mano, mind, mentality, ,
matapithraja, organic , mother-father, flexible,
maya, measured movement, illusion, magic, deceipt
maye, consisting of, comprising, whirling, circula. motion
mey, to exchange, interact, oscillate,
mith (mithya), measure, proof, averaged, weight,
mithuna, association, pair , twins, union
moola, origin, basic, root, capital
moolaprakrithi, unit of activity, fundamental, inertia,
muchyathe, released, loosened.
muddha, superposed, dense, inertia, massive
naha, confinement, , ,
naimi, circumference, globe, thunderbolt,
nama, sink, bend , bow
nana, various, different , -places, distinct
nasthi, non existence, , ,
natavad, synchronous, rythmic, movement,
dramatics, dance steps,
nimitha, target, mark, motive, cause
nirupa, maximal, unmatched, peerless, absolute
nivartha, return, cease, inactive, repent
nivrithi, cover, hide, surround
nivrithth, source,return, depart, hidden, quiet.
498
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
niyath, restrained, subdued, temperate, attentive
niyam, limit, restraint, rule, certainty
paratantra, dependant, subservient, supportive,
pari, additional, inclusive of, against, towards
pariman, measure, weight, value,
pariyantham, limit, extreme, end, boundary
parisesham, conclusion,remainder,supplement
paroksham, abstraction, inferential, mental effort,
pashyathi, taken away, robbed, lost, forced
pra, intense, superb, excellent , complete
prabhutais, energy source, origin , source,
pradhana, primary force, predominant, fundamental
pradhipa, light, elucidation
prakasha, radiant, expanding, manifesting, intense-light
prakrithi, resonance, oscillatory, dynamic state, hadron
pramani, logic, measure, limit, evidence
prapnothi, attain, reach, fulfill,
praptey, attainment, acquisition, range, collection
prasang, attachment , intercourse, occupation, subject
prasangena, incidentally, superficial, ,
prasava, creation, generation, source, progeny
prathi, reference, concerning, against, opposite
pravarthathe, initiating, startng action, prompting, conducting
pravrithi, interface, connection, flow, commencement
prayojanam, active part, purposeful, creativeness, causative
preksakavad, spectatorlike, indifference, unconnected, remote
prekshaka, background, spectator, ,
preethy, expansive, buoyant, pleasure, favour
puman, nuclear, nucleus, potential, male
puna, again, repeat, but, on the other hand
Purusha, nucleus , core, static pot, measure
purvakam, origin, preceeding, source, foremost
raga, spectrum, colour, passion, musicalnote
rajah, shuttling action, interraction, oscillation, vortex
rupa, form, type, geometry, colour
saadhya,attainable,possible
499
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
saha, sustained, patient, able,
sakriyam, active, dynamic, mobile,
sakthi, bonding, contact , attachment,
sama, synchronous, even, identical, common
samanabhihar, camouflage, remove detail, ,
samanvaya, natural order, sequence, application,
sam-anya, synchronised, exactly, perfectfit, fit
sambhava, origin, possibility, agreement,
samipayad, adjacent, close, in, vicinity
samsar, spectrum, manifestation, phenomenon, world
samsidhi, total , - resonance, accomplished,
samya, true, exact, moment, proper
samyama, synchronise, equal, restraint, simultaneous
samyog, combination, alliance, connection,
samyach, all, tru, whole, together
sankalpakam , autonomous , -response, ,
sankhya, unification, resonance, component, logic
sanskara, reactions, momentum, experience, process
sapta, sevens, spectrum of 7, ,
sarga, creation, resolution, nature, spectrum
sarva, complete, whole, all, full
satkaryam, lawful, correct, axiomatic, hospitable
sathwa, expansion, vector, tensor, radiant state, vapour, virtue
savayavam, composite, conglomerate, with, limbs
shaktasya, ability, powerful, skilful, clever
shakya, possible, directly, express,
shanta, synchronised, harmonius, coherent, laminar
sharira, mass, substance, corporeal, body, soul
sheshani, remainder,
shayayuktha, attenuated, resolution, weakening, force
shodasa, sixteenth, , ,
shreyan, appropriate, preferable, harmonius, correct
shrutir, facts, data, information, report
shwara, resonance, tone, vibrations, sound
siddhi, resonant, prooven, verified, contained skill.
sukshma, field-subtle, sharp, exact
500
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
sukshmasteshm, mobile field, , ,
suthra, logic, thread, aphorism,
syu, bonded, woven, sewn.
svabhava, selfsimilar, own-state, state of rest, internal stress
svarupam, positive, natural, normal,
svastha, coherent, firm, contented,
svayambhu, selforganise, existent, self, initiating
Thaama, compressed, contracted , static mass, darkness
thathva, reality, facts, basic nature, elemental
thaijasa, rajasic state, self sustaining , particle, field
thanmatra, vorticulate, dense field, static potentl, particle state
thanvo, synchronised, superposed, weave, spread
thena, then, consequently
thesham, focussed, sharp , pointed, dense
thraya , three modes, three orders, cubic
thiguna, tri-vector, tensor, vector, self-similar
thrishapta, 343, 7 cubed, ,
thrividham, triple, threefold, triad,
ubhayam, both, duality, plurality, usefulness
uhah, explanation, understand , knowledge, ellipsis
upabhogam, use,enjoyment
upadhana, material cause, taking, ,
upakar, supportive , helpful, obliging,
upalabdi, detection, knowledge, gain, sensing
uparamathy, stopped, dead, death, cessation
upayair, correction, expedient, reaction,
upekshak, neglect, indifference, ,
urdhwa, rising up , expansive, ,
uthpadhyam,
uurdhvam, rising , upward, ,
va, radiate, blow, ,
vachaaspathi, blow & shine , photon, light, power
vaasthu, rest mass, house, residence,
vachaspathi, powerful, brilliant, brihaspati,
vad, to, speak, to, shine
vaikritha, accelerative , intense change , hideous,
501
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
vairagya, neutral, balanced, objective, no preference
vasha, submit, subdue, influence, wish
vasthu, substance, reality, subject, component
vayogan, resonance, dynamic union , active meshing ,
vibhuthi, strong force, super strength, welfare, wealth
vidhair, controllable,
vighata, collision, obstruction , destruction, impact
vijnana, dynamic, kinetic potential, wisdom, business
vikaaro, radiant, accelerative, distorting,
vikrithi, harmonic-oscillator, expansive, change, distort
vilakshana, different , puzzling, ,
vimokshana, emancipation, setting free, release, no restraints
vina, without, except, ,
vinivrithi, decaying, subdue, restraining, reducing
viparitha, contrary, contrast, alternative, mistake
viparyaya, dynamic, interactive, changing, reversal
viraga, phase-change, change-colour, disinclination,
virupam, negative, deformed, not, natural
vishala, expansive, large, great,
vishaya, phenomena, sensory, object, scope
vishesha, species, distinctive, peculiarity,
vishith, sharp, precise , ,
vishudha, undistorted, pure, ,
vishwa, universe, cosmos, ,
vrityashrava, self-rotating, & resting , state, selfresonant
vrithi, vortex, photon, oscill. cycle, circ. movemnt
vyakta, manifest, detectable, secondary, plural
vyathishtathe, potent, exchange
vyavadhan, occultation, screening, interval
yatha , as, like, for instance, so that, presence, these
yasmath, by striving , by forcing
ye, state, presence, these
yukthi, joined,connected,mixed-up,verbal arrangement



502
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                               Index
To be completed after correcting all pages.




503
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                     Symbols & Definitions.

Cps= Counts of interactions per cycle. The cycle is fixed at 10
counts or a circular period of 2 π .
Fcp=fractional count per cycle. Mass counts are shown as
fractional counts All interative counts that synchronise and also
those that become coherent act in groups or as simultaneous
counts. These have mass characteristics and form ground states
of ‘resting potential’ that absorb intercative counts.
Kx=Purusha=0.91498794 Fcp. Can be equated to MKS units if
the second is set to fc at the measured velocity of light. The
largest coherent unit of cyclic time-period and is equated to the
maxinum inertia, mass or delay as the ground state. It is the
Andhathaamshra or blackhole state.
My=Moolaprakrithiy=1.34462022E-51 Fcp. The smallest cyclic
unit of activity. The elemental perpetual quantum oscillator and
is equated to the fundamental unit of              charge. My in
simultaneous activity-groups depict mass. All counts are only in
terms of the My value and therefore dimensionless
Mps=Mahadprakriti=2.20369E-8 Fcp or the largest dynamic
mass. It depicts the break in the coherent state and start of the
synchronised state. It forms the base or reference point for all
interactive measurements in the Thaamishra or dense massive
region. It provides the coherent potential to initate activity by
converting the coherent state into the synchronous phase by an
interactive exchange of Vikrithi states. The Mps equals the
Planckmass in value and the Vikrithi=Me equals the electron in
mass value.
PM=Prakrithi saptha or the active nuclear spectrum. Its value is
1.67442318E-27 Fcp. The Mps ends its synchronous state at this
value. Below it the interactive states are either resonant or
radiative. Above this state the potential rises in steps of nuclear
units of dense or potential states. Thaamasic Linga PM is in the
changing interface domain of Linga to Bhava. In Physics it
represents the Neutron / Proton domain of hadronic states.

504
        Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Me=Mahadvikrithi = 9.11023372E-31 Fcp. The Vikrithi in the
Raja spectrum are resonant and transmigratory states. It
represents the reactive, observable and detectable units of
interactive outputs. The Me forms the reactive phase output
when the Mps state is triggered out of its coherent or
synchronous state. The Me reacts at the PM interaface as a result
of an Mps interactive initiative. It depicts the leptonic state of an
electron that interacts and transmigrates in the resonant domain.
Ne=Vikrithi saptha = 9.52873405E-35 Fcp. It represents the
radiative state in the Raja spectrum. The seven Vikrithi levels are
a resonant transmigratoty state at rhe resonant rate of C. The Ne
transmigrates as individual resonant states or each Ne forms the
the node in space for the oscillatory rate of C. It forms the
Abhiman section in the Abhiman / Ahankar inerface from which
radiative Vrithi units are accelerated from energetic interactive
states. Ne units continuously and constantly transmigrate to
maintain the count balance in the substratum.
Vr=Vrithi in the Vikaro spectrum commencing from
2.47671856E-35 Fcp goes upto 7 Ne units or 6.67011384E-34
Fcp to initiate a          Ahanakar radiative state from the
Abhiman/Ahankar interface at the Raja / Satwa interface.
Sathvic Vrithis consist of My units accelerated in groups,
packages or quanta. A total of 4.96059312E+17 My Cps or
seven Ne’s are needed to cross Abhiman/ Ahankar interface and
initiate the accelerative process as a simultaneous package or
quanta. It is the photon in Physics. Each Ne node is triggered or
excited by the My ensemble transmigrating as a Vrithi or Sathvic
vorticullar unit. One My count is reduced by absorption at every
Ne node vibrating at rate C. Hence the maximum counts that
aVrithi can transmigrate at rate C is 4.96059312E+17 and
considering each Ne node is a unit distance apart then the Vrithi
expends the quanta of counts in the noted distance. Taking a
nodal distance at a metre a part (or a metre wavelength) a single
Vrithi or quanta of My can transmigrate 4.96059312E+17 metres
resonantly for 58.5 years before it is completely absorbed. It

505
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
corresponds to the Hubble distance / expansion ratio of a
Megaparsec.
Px= Coherent to synchronous interface = 20.9479861 Cps. It
represents the Linga to Bhava interface transfer ratio. The
coherent Linga state equals the Synchronous Bhava phase at this
value. It represents the number counts absorbed or radiated in the
change over. It forms the coupling constant at the Thaama to
Raja states at the Linga / Bhava interface. In Physics it forms the
strong to weak force coupling or Quark / Baryon/ Hadron /
Meson / Lepton regions.


Px=


Ge= The ratio of coherent and expansive states at the balnced
and unmanifest state. It equates all the three dense states at
balance and the radiant states at the transitional state.

Ge=


KV=ratio first volume change=1/ (k-1)3 =56.94762837
Bt=ratio volumetric/geometric state=KV/Px=2.718
Ge=ratio coherent/expansive=
K7=ratio linear/volume change= 7/(k-1)= 26.93125471
P1=ratio radial/cyclic changes=10/2 π=1.59154943
P7=ratio linera/radial change=7/2 π=1.1140846
Rs=rs=decay in infinite time=1.02040816
MU=Mass of Universe=7.81711993E+52
RU=Space radial count=5.99334E+25
TT=Space time-cycle=2.020845E+17
DD=Space critical density=3.631115E-25
Dp=Mahad density=4.569102E+96
Lp= Mahad radial count=1.68956E-35
Tp=Mahad time cycle=5.696886E-44
506
     Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
Rp=Nuclear radial count=5.089059E-15
Pg=accleration ratio in nucleus=4.359977E-9
GU=acceleration ratio in flat space=1.467584E-9
Pt=Nuclear time cycle=0.00108038
Vp=Nuclear flux ratio=4.71043347E-12
Vm=Electron flux ratio=3.5924965365E-13
Tm=Electron time cycle
Pd=Nuclear density=1.2704356353E+16
Dm=Electron density=8.4457260215E+15
GL= Galaxy= (c1+x)3=1.33E+41.
Hu=Hubble ratio=         Ly                  17
                              = 5.54746834 10
                     55000
h=Plancks constant =6.626E-34
C=Velocity of light = 2.99792459E+8
Alpha=Fine structure coupling constant=.00729735
Eo=Electronic charge=1.5188981E-14




507
      Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.




508
     Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
                         References
“The Sankhya Karika” by Ishwara Krishna Translated by
H.T.Colebrook.
“Classical Samkhya” by Gerald Larsen.
“Brahma Sutras” by Swami Sivananda
“Anthology of Vedic Hymns” by Swami B.Saraswati
“Rig Veda” Anthology translation
“Atharva Veda Samhita 1 & 2” by W.D. Whitney
“Athrava Veda Pratisakhya” W.D. Whitney
“The Atharva Veda” by Devichand
“Hymns of the Atharva Veda ” by Max Muller
“The Vedanta Philosophy” by Max Muller
“The Bhagavadgita” by Dr. Shakuntala Rao Saastri.
“On The Bhagavad-Gita” by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi
“Srimad Bhagavatham” by Swami Prabhupada.
“The Science and Philosophy of Religion” Swami Vivekananda
“Thoughts on Vedanta” by Swami Vivekananda.
“Siva Sutras” by J.Singh
“The Arctic Home In The Vedas” by Lokmanya Tilak
“Vedic Mathematics” Swami Bharathi Krishna”
“The Heart Of The rig Veda” by M.R.Gopalacharya
“Saundaryalahari Sankaracarya” by V.K. Subramaniam.
“Nine Principles Of The Upanishads” by Sw. Kriyananda
“The Karma Mimamsa” by B.Keith.
“Dimensions of Renunciation in Advaita Vedanta” by N.Tiwari
“The Science of Yoga” by I.K.Taimini.
“The Yoga System of Patanjali” by J.H.Woods
“The Yoga Sutra” by G.Feuerstein
“Light of Yoga” by B.K.S. Iyengar.
“Meditation and Mantras” by Swami Devananda
“Devatma Shakti” Swami Maharaj
“Introduction to Sahankara” by R.Das
“Rigveda and the Indus Valley Civilisation” by B.Prakash
“The Mysterious Kundalini” by V.G.Rele.
“The Kularnava Tantra” by Sir John Woodroffe
“The World as Power” by Sir John Woodroffe
509
       Secret Of Sankhya: Acme Of Scientific Unification.
“The Meaning of Relativity” by A. Einstein.
“Gravitation” by M.T.W.
“Concepts of Particle Physics” by Gottfried &Weisskopf
“Backholes TMP” by Thorne, Price, Macdonald.
“Gravity, Particles and Astrophysics” by P.S Wesson
“Heat Transfer” by S.P. Sukhtame.
“The Holographic Universe” By Micaheal.Talbot.
“Different Approach to Cosmology” by Hoyle, Burbigde
&Narlikar
“Concepts of Particle Physics” 1 & 2, by Gottfried & Weisskopf.
“Quantum Gravity” by Isham, Penrose and Sciama
“Fields and Waves” by Ramo
“Supergravity” Proceedings.
“Supersymmetry and Supergravity” by P. West
“Search for Gravitational Waves” papers from ACIF
“Particles and Gravity” by John Hopkins Workshop
“The Search for Gravity Waves” by P.W.Davies
“Gauge Theory” by Moriyasu
“The First Three Minutes” S.Weinberg
“The Unified Model Of The Universe” by S.Sheeter
“The Evolution Of Physics” by Albert Einstein
“Surprises in Theoretical Physics” by R. Peierls
“Gravitation,Cosmology, and CosmicRay Physics” by NRC
“Einsteins Universe” by N.Calder
“Space, Time and Gravity” by R.M.Wald
“A Brief History of Time” by S.Hawkins
“The Omega Point” by J.Gribbin
“Beyond Telepathy” by A. Puharich
“The Human Brain” by I Asimov
“The Iceland Papers” A.Puharich
“Life Energy” by John Diamond
“The Discovery of the Electron” by D.Anderson
“Elementary Particles “ by Frisch/Thorndyke
“Structure of Atomic Nuclei” by C.S. Cook
“ Special Theory of Relativity” by R.Katz
Scientific Papers from the Web .
510
